## hpr0651 :: HPR Community News 0x03

 
New hosts
Welcome to 
Dismal Science, 
N50 
and 
Broam.

Show Review
632 Droops:: Notebook Method for ADHD

633 Skirlet:: The Language Frontier Episode 1 

634 klaatu:: Urban Camping ep 5 - finding food

635 Dismal Science:: Cloudy Predictions

636 pokey:: Kid3-qt

637 brother mouse:: Every Day Carry

638 klaatu:: Urban Camping ep 6

639 droops:: Podcasts are not Radio

640 PipeManMusic:: About microphones

641 klaatu:: Urban Camping ep 7

642 brother mouse:: Hacking Your Suburban Backyard with Chickens

643 droops:: Whats on my MP3 Player

644 N50:: The Plop Boot Loader and UNetbootin- A Great Team

645 Curbuntu and Baylee Juran:: The Dinosaur's Dilemma

646 Dismal Science:: Do you need a carrier plan with Android

647 brother mouse :: How I Got Into Linux

648 Ken Fallon:: Wput: a command-line ftp-client

649 Quvmoh and Phantom Hawk:: Doing your own auto repairs 

650 Broam:: Dumpster Diving

Podcasts by Phone

Every listener is strongly encouraged to send us one contribution per year.
In episode 636 pokey told us that his Mother also listens to the show from time to time
To make it easy for everyone and anyone to contribute we now have call in lines
US:  +1-206-312-5749 
UK: +44-203-432-5879 

Please include your name and email address.
DON'T FORGET TO ADD THE # SIGN AT THE END
Thanks to Russ Woodman - K5TUX and Arron 'Finux' Finnon for making this possible.

Automation and RSS feed

RSS Feed: Delayed as it requires DB changes

Website: Site update that will allow you to upload a show on the website.


Syndicates Shows


I'm running into some difficulties with how best to address syndicated shows and I'd appreciate your feedback.


The background is that I'm trying to specify scheduling rules (https://hackerpublicradio.org/calendar.php) trying to been fair to everyone but also with a view to automating the task. I've taken the view that shows produced for HPR will get priority in the schedule before syndicated shows. This brings up the question of what is a syndicated shows.


If a show is posted to a RSS feed before been posted to HPR then it would be considered to be a syndicated show. However we have had resubmission of a series that was on a podcast that faded so probably no one heard them. Are theses shows now syndicated or do I schedule them as HPR shows ?


We have also had submissions from a host that posts to the HPR FTP server and their own feed at the same time. Because of the delay in HPR scheduling they come out later than their own RSS feed. So are these also now syndicated ?


After hearing 635 Dismal Science:: Cloudy Predictions I was reminded that the speech Freedom In the Cloud: Software Freedom, Privacy, and Security for Web 2.0 and Cloud Computing by A Speech given by Eben Moglen at a meeting of the Internet Society's New York branch on Feb 5, 2010 would be ideal for HPR. Then Fifty OneFifty emailed to say "I noticed there hadn't been any recordings from LUG meetings in a while.  I thought you might want to ask for submissions where meetings or talks (from various fests) are already recorded." With the scheduling rules as they are at the moment, the syndicated don't ever get played.


Time critical
Scheduled Slots
New Hosts
HPR Content on a First in First Out basis.
Syndicated shows on a First in First Out basis.


On the other side I've had comments that the "Flood Gates" had been opened on the HPR feed.


So thinking about it I was thinking of reserving Tuesday and Thursday for syndicated shows, LUG talks, Speeches and the like.

Feedback to the mailing list https://hackerpublicradio.org/maillist

Design Competition
I would like to have some mini-business cards made. Go to https://kenfallon.com/?p=827 for more information.
HPR Promotion

Going Linux podcast re-purposed the "Tom Merritt" episode for their Christmas-break episode 124.
Finux interviewed me on the first episode of his new podcasts Finux's Tech Weekly
Dan and the lads at TLLTs have been pimping HPR all month.
Linux Outlaws gave us a big plug on episode 187
Jonathan Nadeau over at Frost Cast for playing our promo
Pokey has ordered the HPR stickers and thanks to Code Cruncher, Maia came to our rescue again. She uploaded all those shows to archive.org last month

Mirrors

Archive.org https://www.archive.org/details/hackerpublicradio
Jason Scott's textfiles.com https://audio.textfiles.com/shows/hpr/ 

Other News

Thanks Dave P. for point out that Caro.net link not working 
sp0rus has signed up for a "Nameless Infosec Podcast on the first Tuesday of the month.
Stank tells us that there is already an icecast server set up and running so we can stream HPR shows
Ilan Rabinovitch links to banners for scale 9 which is on between 2011/02/25 and 2011/02/27
If you have promotion banners please send them along and we'll add them to the site.

I still haven't found a way to automate the upload to Archive.org - anyone want to investigate that ? 
We have a facebook group at hackerpublicradio.org/facebook

We have a Linked-In group hackerpublicradio.org/linkedin 
We have a iTunes page at hackerpublicradio.org/itunes

A word from our spammers
Only the last few are holding out now that we approve all comments but some still continue to visit.
