## hpr0845 :: Open Source Radio Software

 
In todays show AukonDK leads us on a tour of Open Source Radio Software



Icecast
https://www.icecast.org/
Icecast, the project, is a collection of programs and libraries for streaming audio over the Internet. This includes: 

icecast, a program that streams audio data to listeners 
libshout, a library for communicating with Icecast servers 
IceS, a program that sends audio data to Icecast servers 




BUTT
https://butt.sourceforge.net/
butt (broadcast using this tool) is an easy to use, multi OS streaming tool.
It supports ShoutCast and IceCast.
butt runs on Linux, MacOS and Windows.


IDJC
https://idjc.sourceforge.net/

Internet DJ Console is a project started in March 2005 to provide a powerful yet
easy to use source-client for individuals interested in streaming live radio shows over the
Internet using Shoutcast or Icecast servers.
Because of the large number of streaming applications that already existed but did little more
than stream a pair of audio channels or a fixed playlist, it was decided that IDJC would be the opposite
and simulate audio hardware to cut down the expense of creating a home studio.
In addition to providing a large number of show production features, this software has been written
with the aim of producing the best possible experience for the listeners and DJ alike. To that end features
like VoIP integration were conceived of from the very start resulting in the choice of Jack Audio Connection
Kit to base the audio.
This has afforded IDJC audio processing capabilities that were they built in would be considered excessive. Enjoy
integration with powerful programs such as the well known Skype, Jack Rack (offering audio sound effects plugins),
Jamin (the powerful audio compressor/equalizer), and many more.
Fortunately IDJCs power does not come at the expense of a well organized user interface, nor
have requests for features been permitted to diminish the application's intuitive feel yet throughout development
the main goals have always been that of stability and audio quality.


Liquidsoap
https://savonet.sourceforge.net/index.html


        Liquidsoap is a powerful and flexible language
        for describing your streams.
        It offers a rich collection of operators that you can
        combine at will,
        giving you more power than you need for creating or transforming
        streams.
        But liquidsoap is still very light and easy to use,
        in the Unix tradition of simple strong components working together.
        


Airtime
https://www.sourcefabric.org/en/airtime/

Airtime is the open radio software for scheduling and remote station management. Remote access to the station’s media management, multi-file upload and automatic metadata verification is coupled with a collaborative online scheduling calendar and playlist management. The scheduling calendar is managed through an easy-to-use web-interface and triggers audio playout with sub-second precision for fading.


Rivendell
https://www.rivendellaudio.org/
Rivendell
 is a complete radio 
      broadcast automation solution, with facilities for the acquisition, 
      management, scheduling and playout of audio content. It has all of the 
      features one would expect in a modern, fully-fledged radio automation 
      system, including support for both PCM and MPEG audio encoding, full 
      voicetracking and log customization as well as support for a wide variety 
      of third party software and hardware. As a robust, functionally complete 
      digital audio system for broadcast radio applications, Rivendell uses 
      industry standard components like the GNU/Linux Operating System, the AudioScience HPI Driver 
      Architecture and the MySQL Database 
      Engine. Rivendell is available under the GNU Public License.



RAAbuntu
https://rrabuntu.sourceforge.net/


        Rivendell Radio Automation Live CD installer for Ubuntu. This is a modified version of Ubuntu 10.04. It has been customised using the Ubuntu Customization Kit (UCK) and the Rivendell DEB packages developed by Alban in France.  https://blog.tryphon.org/alban/



Frederick Henderson created all the install scripts for the greatly improved installer



Email: aukondk@aukondk.com
Twitter/Identica: aukondk
gplus.to/aukondk
www.aukondk.com
