## hpr0676 :: Behind the Scenes at Hacker Public Radio. A community update for the month 2011-02.

 New hosts

Welcome to 
sp0rus and biosshadow, 
Heisenbug, 
JBu92, 
Sven, 
Mark Katerberg and Courtney Schauer, 
Trixter, 
Bariman, 
dodddummy, 
Claudio Miranda, and
Doug Farrell.

Show Review

652:: sp0rus and biosshadow:: Nameless Infosec Podcast Ep 1
653:: Heisenbug:: Intro to Black Box Testing
654:: JBu92:: Offline Filesharing
655:: Flaviu Simihaian:: Read 'n Code - 2 Camus's The Plague and Reddit.com
656:: Sven:: My first steps in recovering pictures
657:: droops:: HPR Video Proposal
658:: Mark Katerberg and Courtney Schauer:: Music Management Consoles
659:: Lord Drachenblut:: 10 Buck Review - Serenity
660:: Trixter:: An argument against emulators when retrocomputing
661:: Quvmoh:: War walking with smart phone
662:: Xoke:: DD-WRT
663:: brother mouse:: What is on your mp3 player
664:: Michael Foord:: A Little Bit of Python: Episode 13
665:: KFive:: Hacking the Craps Table
666:: brother mouse:: Salvaging old Coleman lanterns and stoves
667:: Johninsc:: Your Local Library
668:: Flaviu Simihaian:: Read 'n Code - 3 Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-five and Erlang
669:: KFive:: QSK Netcast 6: The Origin of Open Source
670:: Bariman:: Linux - A Jazz Musician's Viewpoint
671:: dodddummy:: How I Found Linux
672:: Claudio Miranda:: How I Upgraded My PC - CPU
673:: droops:: droops returns to geocaching
674:: Skirlet:: The Language Frontier Episode 2
675:: Doug Farrell:: Python Response to Bad Apples Podcast 5x18

Host 107 brings us BLUE HEAVEN

A dramatized science-fiction short story written and read by lostnbronx 
Get it now at https://www.info-underground.net:70/lostnbronx/fiction/blue-heaven


Apologies To:

sp0rus and biosshadow for not crediting them correctly. 
Doug Farrell for missing the show he emailed me
Jason Dodd for missing his show on the ftp server
Pokey and Code Cruncher for messing up their been two fests
Claudio Miranda for the unnecessary spam about his episode
klaatu for anything I may have said or done to cause him to abandon HPR.

Thanks to

brother mouse for his mp3 tagging utility https://pastebin.com/t7dH8bK3
Tony Baechler for his research into Google voice
Code Cruncher for the entries to the business cards
mordancy for volunteering to look into Archive.org automating
droops for all the man love
droops and slick0 for the flac version of the theme song
David Stafford for constructive comments on how to improve the site
pokeys mom for the HPR promo

Podcasts by Phone


Every listener is strongly encouraged to send us one contribution per year.
In episode 636 pokey told us that his Mother also listens to the show from time to time and this month she upheld her end of the bargain.

The call in lines
US:  +1-206-312-5749 
UK: +44-203-432-5879 

Please include your name and email address.
DON'T FORGET TO ADD THE # SIGN AT THE END
Thanks to Russ Woodman - K5TUX and Arron 'Finux' Finnon for making this possible.

Scheduling Rules update
Shows will be released based on the following rules that gives content produced for HPR priority, while avoiding having any one host/series repeated in a week. Hosts are encouraged to release their shows on other feeds after uploading them to HPR.


Time critical 
    Where the host has requested a show to be posted at a particular time or that the show contains newsworthy information.
Scheduled Slots 
    Where a host has been assigned a regular day to release a show.
New Hosts 
    In order to encourage new hosts we will prioritize shows submitted from new hosts so they can experience the excitment of podcasting.
HPR Content on a First in First Out basis.


Syndicated shows will be released on their own scheduled slot following the same rules as above.
HPR Stickers




Hot off the press ! 
The HPR stickers have been distributed to our Global distribution network in North America, Europe and Australia.
For anyone else on this who wants them, now is the time to ask; before they all get handed out at the first couple of Linux fests. They're free as in beer btw.
We're also sending stickers out to the other podcasters who promoted HPR in the past.

Audio Book Club

Several of the HPR contributors in the IRC channel have formed the beginning of an audio-book club. We'll be doing reviews which include spoilers, so I was wondering if you could announce our first audio-book title in case anyone wanted to listen to it before we spoiled it on them. We're hoping this will become a(n ir)regular show for HPR, but we'll see how the first one goes. All audio-books that we review will be free (as in beer) and easily available, so the barrier to entry for the listeners and participants will just be the time involved in listening to the audio. The first audio book is a short one. It runs about 3.5 hours total, and I can tell you it is a very good book which will appeal to both science fiction fans and political critics alike. 


The book is Badge Of Infamy by Lester Del Rey and read by Steven Wilson. It is available from podiobooks.com. The direct url is
https://www.podiobooks.com/title/badge-of-infamy.


From podiobooks.com: "Daniel Feldman was a doctor once. He made the mistake of saving a friend's life in violation of Medical Lobby rules. Now, he's a pariah, shunned by all, forbidden to touch another patient. But things are more loose on Mars. There, Doc Feldman is welcomed by the colonists, even as he's hunted by the authorities. But, when he discovers a Martian plague may soon wipe out humanity on two planets, the authorities begin hunting him for a different reason altogether."


We'll be announcing the next book at the end of our first show.

Site improvements

Each hosts have their own folder ie: hackerpublicradio.org/droops/
Vimeo Group https://vimeo.com/channels/hpr
Site redesign more up-to-date looking.
All comments and posts need a rel=nofollow tag on links.
All the RSS feed needs to be put in the address bar
Each episode title link should link to the individual show page
A separate link/graphic should play the audio, maybe have a built in player and a download link.
Each episode should have a unique url with the shows title in it, ie hackerpublicradio.org/geocaching_with_droops/ 
We need more of a call to action about recording a show, its kinda hidden.
The total comment viewer needs to link to the episode page, so that people can see all of the comments about the episode.
A way to upload our episodes and automate everything.
We also need the ability for the hosts to add episodes of hpr and other shows to a "Select" RSS feed. This way, when we find something super cool that someone else recorded, we can share it with the community.

News from the Admin Channel
HPR is been blocked by some companies because they can filter the find the word hacker - money well spent. During the spam fest, HPR got listed on sites as a source of malware. I've been contacting the sites but each blames the next one for the listing and the trail runs cold.


https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2239162
  https://www.mywot.com/en/scorecard/hackerpublicradio.org/comment#comment
  https://www.malwaredomains.com/wordpress/?p=1340
    https://malwaresurvival.net/2011/01/21/courtney-cox-search-leads-to-fake-av-malware/
    https://www.dshield.org/tools/suspicious_domains.html

I registered Hobby Public Radio but cPanel doesn't seem to have a way to have HackerPublicRadio and HobbyPublicRadio served from the same directory.

Question: Off the shelf or Self Build ?

Can we make a HPR site using standard Wordpress plugins ?
  
User account management
  Podcast plugins
  Released according to a schedule 
  
email from the server is broken through cPanel and this is delaying up automation 
Any PHP programmers want to help
Proposal to make droops, finux, klaatu admins
Still no update on the Ice Cast server

Events

Indiana LinuxFest is a community F/OSS conference, which is showcasing the best the community has to offer in the way of Free and Open Source Software, Open Hardware, and Free Culture. We are also highlighting the best and brightest from all of these communities from the hobbyist to professional level.


Indiana LinuxFest 2011, March 25th to the 27th at the Wyndam Indianapolis West, is free to attend and Open for any to attend be it the hobbyist to the professional. So join us as we March to Freedom.




Every 50th person who signs up for the following passes, Supporter Passes and LPIC-1 Exam Cram Session, will receive their choice of a Nook Color or Archos 70 while supplies last.


https://www.indianalinux.org/cms/PrizesForParticipation

Beep from https://www.freesound.org/: btn402.mp3 :: (0:00) :: Short button beep. Recorded in cAve studio... added by junggle 



Northeast GNU/Linux Fest Details Saturday, April 2, 2011 Worcester MA

 
More information.


Linuxfest Northwest 2011 - April 30th-May 1st Bellingham, WA

 
More information.
 
HPR is going Northeast and then Northwest with tables at both Linuxfests. We would like people to help out at the table, finding equipment etc. 
 
 
How it all started: here is the link to pokey's first mail about the table at NELF:
 https://hackerpublicradio.org/pipermail/hpr_hackerpublicradio.org/2010-December/000161.html 
 
We are also running a Competition to design Mini Business Cards for HPR which we would like to have for the fest. 
They submitted entries have all won a book and they are all up on the picasaweb site https://picasaweb.google.com/108536234968997542346/DesignCompetition#

Upcoming Shows

HPR Admins with "Community News" SCHEDULED SLOT
biosshadow and sp0rus Nameless Infosec Podcast. SCHEDULED SLOT
lostnbronx THEATER OF THE IMAGINATION 2
Syndicated Thursday ---> 10 Buck Review
Broam auctions yard sales and flea markets
---
pokey NELF Taxes
riddlebox Ep1 Product Review SunVolt
