## hpr1712 :: What's in my Crate

 
Back in the summer of 2014 I started going to the Surrey Linux User Group.


I was asked to give a short presentation about Linux accessibility and how,
although I am totally blind, I still write code and muck about with Linux.


I was then asked to give the same presentation at the Portsmouth LUG.


This time I made it more comprehensive and took more kit.


So I take this opportunity to give my version of the "What's in my bag"
shows that some folks have been doing.  As I am unemployed, like a lot of blind
folks, I have been unable to justify this before now because I don't lug
an interesting collection of stuff to and from work.


Here's a simple bullet list about the crate and it's contents:


The crate is a 35 litre capacity 'Really Useful Box'

First in were 2 Dell Latitude D630 (64-bit) laptops

Next in was a Dell Inspiron (32-bit) laptop, clunky and slow

The three laptops were sandwhiched between 3-ply layers of bubble-wrap

Next in was a Seika 40-cell refreshable Braille display

Next was a clear polycarbonate, zip-up pencil case stuffed with audio leads

Then a 'Mesh' Bluetooth and line-in external speaker

And a Braun external speaker/FM radio/micro-SD boom-box

A four-way mains power splitter

The three AC adaptors for the laptops

On the top of the box, because it was too wide to go in, was a USB keyboard

Mobile phone charging battery 'brick', for the Raspberry Pi

A Raspberry Pi, a Banana Pi and some Arduino bits and pieces



Here's what I demonstrated with two of the laptops:


Trisquel Linux and accessibility in the Gnome desktop with Orca

Accessibility in the console with Debian and the Braille display on the Inspiron



The second Latitude was with me so I could get some sighted help with
BIOS settings.


My thanks have to go to Tony Wood for the lift to and from both of these
accessibility presentations.  I could not have done either, especially the Portsmouth one without his help.


Thanks also to Lisi, the coordinator of the Portsmouth LUG and to the folks of that LUG for their enthusiasm.


Here's the link to the HPR show about my Raspberry Pi tts code fix:


https://hackerpublicradio.org/eps.php?id=1649
