## hpr1764 :: Introduction to Rogue Class Linux

 
Rogue Class describes itself as "a toy Linux distribution for playing games and reading books. RCL favors turn-based games, such as puzzles and rogue-like games. "


What are Rogue Class games?  According to a link at the Rogue Class website, Rogue Class games  are characterized by



"Tactical play. The unit of action is based on the individual adventurer. The game is not twitch oriented (like Quake, rewarding reflexes & well trained actions) nor is it strategy oriented (like Civilizations or Warcraft, requiring working on the large picture)
"Based in Hack and Slash. A roguelike isn't primarily about plot development or telling a story. It is about killing things and acquiring treasure.
"Random games. A roguelike is a dungeon crawler where no two games are the same. The maps are different, the items are different, there are no guaranteed win paths.
"Permadeath. You die, that is it. No restoring a savegame. Good roguelikes delete your save game after loading them. This is compensated by the replayability of the game.
"Complex interactions of properties. While the commands for a roguelike are simple, the potential interactions are not. My favourite example is equipping a silver ring as a weapon in order to damage a creature vulnerable to silver, but not one's other weapons. [Editor: This matches the Hack branch of the roguelike tree, not the Angband branch]
"Steam rolling monsters. If a critter is in your way, and weak, you shouldn't even notice it is there."




(Source:  https://www.zincland.com/powder/?pagename=about)


Rogue Class contains four dozen or so games, two of which are actually categories which in turn contain additional games, as well as a number of utilities, including a network manager, an IRC client, and more.  Some representative games include the following, picked quite at random:  Angband, Fargoal, Magus, Moria, Nethack, and Tome. 



If you liked the old games, give Rogue Class a spin.



Website:   https://rogueclass.org/



The Rogue Class forum is located at Linux Questions.org: https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/rogue-class-106/



You can see an interesting chart of Rogue Class's graphics subsystems at this link:  
https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/rogue-class-106/rcl-graphics-sub-systems-4175522637

