## hpr1025 :: Infonomicon Episode #51

 
Syndicated Thursdays is a chance to showcase other Creative Commons works. We try to expose podcasts, speeches, presentations, music, etc that you may not have heard. If you have suggestions for items then send your recommendation to admin at hpr and we'll add it to the queue.


Today we are going to listen to episode 51 of the infonomicon (https://audio.textfiles.com/shows/infonomicon/ ) podcast. Droops had been a regular listener of RFA and emailed their show several times, started his own show Droops Radio which changed to infonomicon radio. 


Infonomicon Bumper Music plays until 1:35. Positive feedback about the Infonomicon TV. This is episode 51, which should be almost a year, except it's been more than a year. Podcast Incubator 2.0 is coming, and its code is going to be released under the GPL. Dosman and Droops have come up with the idea of doing a daily radio show: Talk with a Techie (TWAT). No fluff, no nothing, at least five minutes long. Infonomicon won't close because of this. Obfuscated is not a happy camper, but he is alive. 16 of 66 pages in a magazine Droops read was from one magazine. Bob Denver (Gilligan) passed away, and the boat from Gilligan's Island was named after a FCC chairman. AOL is about to be a sucker again, so screw them over. Cyber-looters are registering domains and taking money from hurricane donators: 2500 domains have been registered. Droops is not sure what the solution should be and asks for solutions. People trust Google, but Google can do evil: they're an advertising company. Google is buying dark fiber. Google has all sorts of broadband needs, so they'll likely go after all sorts of bandwidth to bring their services. Droops wishes that Google made blogs an option to not search. There's lots of companies searching nothing but blogs. This hasn't been the greatest show ever, but work is being done on the other shows. This is the shortest Infonomicon ever. Bumper Music plays from 15:42 onward.
