## hpr2286 :: Surviving a Stroke

 First off a disclaimer: anything I say here is my experience and is in no way intended as advice to anyone, everyone who experiences or is at risk of a stroke is different and you must make your own lifestyle choices based on professional advice.
That clear lets get on with my show. On the 2nd February 2017 I had a Stroke, it came completely without warning. I was out with my wife, just about to start a Bridge class we were attending. I sat down at the table and just after sitting down was blasted with what I thought was White Noise from faulty hearing aids. After quickly removing them without any effect I thought I was having a sudden severe migraine, which I have from time to time. However I was unable to communicate what was happening and after several minutes my wife wrote on a paper the words “Home” and “Hospital” and I pointed to hospital. An Emergency ambulance was duly called and I was transferred to the local Emergency Department. Several hours later in the early hours of the next morning they admitted me, still not sure what had happened. It was only after a scan that afternoon that they concluded that I had had a Stroke.
I was seen by a consultant that evening who confirmed this and as I still had residual problems on my right side concluded that it was a stroke, and not a TIA (Transient Ischaemic Attack) or a mini stroke as it is sometimes called. I spent the next 12 days in hospital having further tests, including another scan, an MRI as opposed to the previous CT scan I had had on admission. After seeing the results of this scan the Consultant was amazed that I was not more severely affected, in other cases of the type of stroke I suffered the physical and cognitive damage is much more severe. It was looking like I had thankfully, dodged a bullet.
That is not to say there were no effects. My right side was effected and the fine motor control was damaged. Coordination in using my right hand and arm were initially difficult as was writing (I am predominantly right handed). Also my mouth felt like I was wearing someone’s false teeth, even though I have all my own. However the main effect has been fatigue, initially severe, but as I write this 6 weeks later this is starting to improve, although I still tire after 2-3 hours doing things that I could have done all day previously. I also still have a little feeling of weakness in my right hand and arm and writing is still an issue, thankfully most of my writing is done on a keyboard.
So what caused it I hear you yelling, well the truth is they don’t know. The most serious risks are to people that Drink alcohol excessively, Smoke and have a high fat diet. Also those over weight particularly the obese, and people with diabetes are high risk. Another major risk factor is genetic, and I remembered afterwards that my Grandfather and an Uncle had major strokes that ultimately led to their deaths. Also stress and high blood pressure can be a factor.
I don’t drink or smoke and have been a vegetarian for many years, also my blood pressure is checked regularly and was always seen as within normal range. However I was at the time of the stroke 21lb over weight, but even before it happened I had lost 7lb. Since the stroke the blood tests also show I am pre-diabetic so I need to increase my exercise (again something I had started to do), and alter my diet to reduce my blood sugars. Not major issues as I had started to attend a gym and walk more as part of the weight loss plan, and I actually prefer healthy food, and now have a reason to say to people when I’m in company why I eat what and the way I do.
The main effect for me has been the restriction on my mobility as the Consultant will not let me drive until 3 months post discharge (14th May), which means I have to rely on others or get public transport, this is not the problem but having to walk from transport stops to where I’m going is due to the fatigue. Roll on May 14th.
I thought I would record this show as a bit of a warning, and for listeners to realise that a Stroke can and does happen to anyone. On a positive note there is life after stroke and even for those who are more seriously disabled by a stroke many can and do recover most if not all the function they had before hand.
Further info on Stroke can be found here:
https://www.stroke.org.uk/
https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/stroke/pages/introduction.aspx
