## hpr2532 :: Podcrawl Glasgow 2018

 HPR Podcrawl 2018
Dave, Kevie, and Andrew - hosts of TuxJam - take you via a slightly elongated route to an upcoming event.
The event
Podcrawl Glasgow 2018 Saturday 28 July 2018 from 18:00 starting at The State Bar, Holland Street, G2 4NG
Dave's mistake
A minor review of the 2017 event leaves a bitter taste in the mouth of the Big Jessie.
Who is the event for?
Kevie lists various groups of people who might be interested in going. Dave adds a couple more. So does Andrew. The upshot is: anyone human. Oh, and guide dogs. But probably not children after 19:00 (it's a Scottish pubs/licensing thing).
Audio from the event
Andrew suggests that we may be able to record or even stream audio from the Podcrawl. Dave apparently is an expert in such things, and tries to impress the others with science. Kevie suggests we wait towards the end of the event when it's quieter.
Tactical chunder
Dave is reminded - for a second time - about his mishap. Andrew decides to go into nauseating (pardon the pun) detail.
How will you find us?
Some of us will be wearing Podcrawl t-shirts, although the company that originally produced the t-shirts sadly has gone out of business.
Andrew keeps Ken Fallon happy by suggesting that listeners record a response to this show with any suggestions about recording at live events.
Kevie tells us where the event will be (see the top of the notes)
We'll be posting through the event on Twitter/GNUsocial/Diaspora with the hashtag #PodcrawlGlasgow. Use any one of these to find out where we'll be at any time.
Non-techy people are welcome. Cigars will be provided.
If you're in a band, come along as well... we have plenty of opportunity for promotion of your music!
Andrew reminds us that this is the fifth Podcrawl in Glasgow.
Kevie says that if you're coming into Glasgow before 18:00, we'd love to meet up with you beforehand. We believe that all three of us (plus Dave's good lady) will be there from early/mid afternoon.
Contact Us
You can contact all three of us at the same time via tuxjam@otherside.network - let us know you're coming!
Kevie
Twitter: @kevie49
Diaspora: kevie@diaspora.microdata.co.uk
Fediverse: kevie@community.highlandarrow.com
Andrew
Fediverse: mcnalu@mastodon.me.uk
Twitter: @mcnalu
Dave
Twitter: @thelovebug
Fediverse: thelovebug@s.wefamlee.be
Other podcasts?
Dave asks Andrew about a podcast featuring three guys talking about Creative Commons and Linux: TuxJam
Dave asks Kevie about a short-form music podcast featuring a couple of pieces of music from a single artist: CCJam
Andrew asks Dave about a husband and wife podcast with a live show that goes out every Friday night from South Yorkshire in England: The Bugcast - it's award-winning, has a live chatroom, and is 10-years old!
Thanks for listening!
Thanks to Torriden for allowing us to play their track Drinking Away. We hope to see you at Podcrawl in July for a beer or malt (or two)!
