## hpr2738 :: My Applications

 Hi again, this is Tony Hughes from Blackpool in the UK. Ken is still short of shows so here is another quick show to help out with the queue.
This one is going to be about the applications I use on my Linux Mint 19.1 install. I’ve been using Linux for over 10 years now and during that time have never felt that there was anything that was lacking in the software department for day to day productivity and general day to day use, so this is just a list of some of the things that I, and I suspect most computer users, need to make electronic life a reality.
So for internet browsing I use Firefox, I’ve been using this since my Windows days and it was just natural that, as this is the default web browser in Linux Mint, that this is what I would continue to use when I moved over to Linux.
Email – I have several web based accounts which means these are operating system agnostic, but for my Internet Service provider account I use Thunderbird to download and store my e-mail onto my main desktop PC. I can also use this to access my web based accounts and store emails for these off line as well if needed.
Office productivity is provided for with LibreOffice which is a very mature and comprehensive office suite comprising of all the main tools needed such as a word processor, spreadsheet and presentation software. It also has a Database and drawing package, and for maths geeks an advanced maths formula creating program which I have never used, but could be very useful for students and scientists.
For audio and video playback I use VLC which again is something I first used back in my windows days, it works with all the audio and video codecs you can throw at it, and if you have the Libdvdcss codecs installed will play proprietary DVD’s.
For recording and editing audio including this podcast I use Audacity, which is again a cross platform programme and a very powerful piece of software, as myself and many others that use it will be able to tell you
So that is a short list of the programmes that I use on a day to day basis. I hope you found it useful, if not it doesn’t matter as Ken still got a show out of me.
Well that’s it for this one. This is Tony Hughes signing off for now.
