## hpr3834 :: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 5

 Episode #5

printables:
Kirby 40mm Fume Extractor.
wikipedia:
The Kirby Company is a manufacturer of vacuum cleaners and home cleaning
accessories, located in Cleveland, Ohio, United States. It is a division
of Right Lane Industries.
lugcast: We are an open
Podcast/LUG that meets every first and third Friday of every month using
mumble.
wikipedia:
The PlayStation Portable (PSP) is a handheld game console developed and
marketed by Sony Computer Entertainment.
wikipedia:
Rammstein is a German Neue Deutsche Härte band formed in Berlin in 1994.

Goodluck with all the rest of the band/music chatter. I can't
understand any of it.

youtube:
Burger Dance.

Please no. Why did I signup for this.

wikipedia:
Syphilis is most commonly spread through sexual activity.
wikipedia:
Death was an American death metal band formed in Altamonte Springs,
Florida, in 1984 by Chuck Schuldiner. Death is considered to be among
the most influential bands in heavy metal music and a pioneering force
in death metal.
wikipedia:
Death is a Detroit rock band formed in Detroit, Michigan in 1971 by
brothers Bobby, David, and Dannis Hackney.
wikipedia:
BitLocker is a full volume encryption feature included with Microsoft
Windows versions starting with Windows Vista.
dell:
Latitude E6410 Laptop.
slackware: Slackware is a
Linux distribution created by Patrick Volkerding in 1993.
puppylinux: Puppy Linux is
an operating system and family of light-weight Linux distributions that
focus on ease of use and minimal memory footprint.
tails: Tails, or The Amnesic
Incognito Live System, is a security-focused Debian-based Linux
distribution aimed at preserving privacy and anonymity.
debian: Debian, also known as
Debian GNU/Linux, is a Linux distribution composed of free and
open-source software, developed by the community-supported Debian
Project, which was established by Ian Murdock on August 16, 1993.
wikipedia:
Trusted Platform Module (TPM, also known as ISO/IEC 11889) is an
international standard for a secure cryptoprocessor, a dedicated
microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated
cryptographic keys.
pine64:
ROCK64 is a credit card sized Single Board Computer powered by Rockchip
RK3328 quad-core ARM Cortex A53 64-Bit Processor and support up to 4GB
1600MHz LPDDR3 memory.
docker:
realies/nicotine.
wikipedia: rsync
is a utility for efficiently transferring and synchronizing files
between a computer and an external hard drive and across networked
computers by comparing the modification times and sizes of files.
funkwhale: Listen to your
music, everywhere. Upload your personal library to your pod, share it
with friends and family, and discover talented creators.
mumble: Mumble is a free,
open source, low latency, high quality voice chat application.
youtube:
Ernie (The Fastest Milkman In The West).

Why?!

youtube:
Shaddap You Face - Joe Dolce.
ironmaiden: Iron Maiden
are an English heavy metal band formed in Leyton, East London, in 1975
by bassist and primary songwriter Steve Harris.
wikipedia:
Kamelot is an American power metal band from Tampa, Florida, formed by
Thomas Youngblood, in 1987.
wikipedia:
Nightwish is a Finnish symphonic metal band from Kitee.
wikipedia: Kitee
is a town and a municipality of Finland. It is located in the province
of Eastern Finland and is part of the North Karelia region.
wikipedia:
Evanescence is an American rock band founded in Little Rock, Arkansas in
1995 by singer and musician Amy Lee and guitarist Ben Moody.
wikipedia:
Deep Purple are an English rock band formed in London in 1968.
wikipedia:
Pink Floyd are an English rock band formed in London in 1965.
wikipedia:
Black Sabbath were an English rock band formed in Birmingham in 1968 by
guitarist Tony Iommi, drummer Bill Ward, bassist Geezer Butler and
vocalist Ozzy Osbourne.
toastmasters
Toastmasters International is a nonprofit educational organization that
teaches public speaking and leadership skills through a worldwide
network of clubs.
bbc: The British Broadcasting
Corporation is the national broadcaster of the United Kingdom, based at
Broadcasting House in London.
matrix: An open network for
secure, decentralized communication.
wikipedia:
The General Data Protection Regulation is a Regulation in EU law on data
protection and privacy in the EU and the European Economic Area.
wikipedia:
The Gopher protocol (/ˈɡoʊfər/) is a communication protocol designed for
distributing, searching, and retrieving documents in Internet Protocol
networks.
wikipedia:
Gemini is an application-layer internet communication protocol for
accessing remote documents, similar to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP) and Gopher.
wikipedia:
Slipknot is an American heavy metal band formed in Des Moines, Iowa, in
1995 by percussionist Shawn Crahan, drummer Joey Jordison and bassist
Paul Gray.
wikipedia:
After Forever was a Dutch symphonic metal band with strong progressive
metal influences. The band relied on the use of both soprano vocals and
death growls.
metallica: Metallica is an
American heavy metal band.
wikipedia:
Queen are a British rock band formed in London in 1970 by Freddie
Mercury (lead vocals, piano), Brian May (guitar, vocals) and Roger
Taylor (drums, vocals), later joined by John Deacon (bass).
wikipedia: Brexit
(a portmanteau of "British exit") was the withdrawal of the United
Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU) at 23:00 GMT on 31 January
2020 (00:00 1 February 2020 CET). The UK is the only sovereign country
to have left the EU or the EC.
imdb: A WWII
bomb group commander must fill the shoes of his predecessor and get the
performance rating up to snuff.
wikipedia:
Twelve O'Clock High is a 1949 American war film about aircrews in the
United States Army's Eighth Air Force, who flew daylight bombing
missions against Germany and Occupied France during the early days of
American involvement in World War II.
wikipedia:
The Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress is a four-engined heavy bomber developed
in the 1930s for the United States Army Air Corps (USAAC).
IRC IRC
is short for Internet Relay Chat. It is a popular chat service still in
use today.
wikipedia:
Next Unit of Computing (NUC) is a line of small-form-factor barebone
computer kits designed by Intel.
plex: With
our easy-to-install Plex Media Server software and Plex apps on the
devices of your choosing, you can stream your video, music, and photo
collections any time, anywhere, to whatever you want.
ubuntu: Ubuntu is a Linux
distribution based on Debian and composed mostly of free and open-source
software.
ebay: Buy & sell
electronics, cars, clothes, collectibles & more on eBay, the world's
online marketplace.
amazon:
Amazon Renewed is your trusted destination for pre-owned, refurbished
products.
wikipedia: Ryzen
is a brand of multi-core x86-64 microprocessors designed and marketed by
AMD for desktop, mobile, server, and embedded platforms based on the Zen
microarchitecture.
wikipedia:
Apple M1 is a series of ARM-based systems-on-a-chip (SoCs) designed by
Apple Inc. as a central processing unit (CPU) and graphics processing
unit (GPU) for its Mac desktops and notebooks, and the iPad Pro and iPad
Air tablets.

wikipedia: The
Apple M2 is an ARM-based system on a chip (SoC) designed by Apple Inc.
as a central processing unit (CPU) and graphics processing unit (GPU)
for its Mac notebooks and the iPad Pro tablet.

wikipedia: A
system on a chip or system-on-chip (SoC /ˌˈɛsoʊsiː/; pl. SoCs
/ˌˈɛsoʊsiːz/) is an integrated circuit that integrates most or all
components of a computer or other electronic system.
wikipedia:
ARM (stylised in lowercase as arm, formerly an acronym for Advanced RISC
Machines and originally Acorn RISC Machine) is a family of reduced
instruction set computer (RISC) instruction set architectures for
computer processors, configured for various environments.
youtube:
One Woman’s Wilderness.
wikipedia:
Felix Unger (born 2 March 1946 in Klagenfurt, Austria) is a heart
specialist who served as the president of the European Academy of
Sciences and Arts for three decades.
geekflare:
How to create APT Proxy using a Raspberry PI with apt-cacher-ng?
gpd: The world's smallest
6800U handheld Exclusive performance optimization tool Support SteamOS
system.
pine64:
ROCK64 is a credit card sized Single Board Computer powered by Rockchip
RK3328 quad-core ARM Cortex A53 64-Bit Processor and support up to 4GB
1600MHz LPDDR3 memory.
wikipedia:
Digital subscriber line (DSL; originally digital subscriber loop) is a
family of technologies that are used to transmit digital data over
telephone lines.
wikipedia:
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) is a feature of Windows that allows
developers to run a Linux environment without the need for a separate
virtual machine or dual booting.
wikipedia: In
computing, a virtual machine (VM) is the virtualization/emulation of a
computer system.
wikipedia: A
Chromebook (sometimes stylized in lowercase as chromebook) is a laptop
or tablet running the Linux-based ChromeOS as its operating system.
virtualbox: VirtualBox is a
powerful x86 and AMD64/Intel64 virtualization product for enterprise as
well as home use.
wikipedia:
Telemetry is the in situ collection of measurements or other data at
remote points and their automatic transmission to receiving equipment
(telecommunication) for monitoring.
gnu:
Published software should be free software. To make it free software,
you need to release it under a free software license.
microsoft:
MICROSOFT SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS.
apple: software
license agreements for currently shipping Apple products.
cdc:
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(HIPAA).
nhs: The NHS website for
England.
wikipedia:
Ransomware is a type of malware from cryptovirology that threatens to
publish the victim's personal data or permanently block access to it
unless a ransom is paid off.
wikipedia:
Internet Explorer (formerly Microsoft Internet Explorer and Windows
Internet Explorer, commonly abbreviated IE or MSIE) is a discontinued
series of graphical web browsers developed by Microsoft which was used
in the Windows line of operating systems.
wikipedia:
Microsoft Edge is a proprietary, cross-platform web browser created by
Microsoft.
oggcamp: OggCamp is an
unconference celebrating Free Culture, Free and Open Source Software,
hardware hacking, digital rights, and all manner of collaborative
cultural activities and is committed to creating a conference that is as
inclusive as possible.
penguicon: A happy place
where hackers, makers, foodies, open source software junkies, anime
buffs, and science fiction fans of all ages and backgrounds come
together.
mozillafestival:
MozFest is a unique hybrid: part art, tech and society convening, part
maker festival, and the premiere gathering for activists in diverse
global movements fighting for a more humane digital world.
fosdem: FOSDEM is a free
event for software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate.
wikipedia:
A hybrid integrated circuit (HIC), hybrid microcircuit, hybrid circuit
or simply hybrid is a miniaturized electronic circuit constructed of
individual devices, such as semiconductor devices (e.g. transistors,
diodes or monolithic ICs) and passive components (e.g. resistors,
inductors, transformers, and capacitors), bonded to a substrate or
printed circuit board (PCB).
wikipedia: A
real-time clock (RTC) is an electronic device (most often in the form of
an integrated circuit) that measures the passage of time.
eurovision: The Eurovision Song
Contest.
wikipedia: Blue
laws, also known as Sunday laws, Sunday trade laws and Sunday closing
laws, are laws restricting or banning certain activities on specified
days, usually Sundays in the western world.
wikipedia: A
census is the procedure of systematically acquiring, recording and
calculating information about the members of a given population.
businesspundit:
The Commercialization Of Our 25 Favorite Holidays
wikipedia:
Leave It to Beaver is an iconic American television situation comedy
about an American family of the 1950s and early 1960s.
wikipedia:
The COVID-19 pandemic, also known as the coronavirus pandemic, is an
ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The novel
virus was first identified in an outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan
in December 2019.
who:
COVID-19 transmission and protective measures.
forbes:
CDC: 10 Ways To Dine Safely At A Restaurant With Coronavirus
Around.
restaurant:
COVID-19 Restaurant Impact Survey.
subway: Subway is an
American multinational fast food restaurant franchise that specializes
in submarine sandwiches, wraps, salads and drinks.
dominos: Domino's Pizza, Inc.,
trading as Domino's, is a Michigan-based multinational pizza restaurant
chain founded in 1960 and led by CEO Russell Weiner.
mcdonalds:
McDonald's Corporation is an American multinational fast food chain,
founded in 1940 as a restaurant operated by Richard and Maurice
McDonald, in San Bernardino, California, United States.
wikipedia: In
public health, social distancing, also called physical distancing, is a
set of non-pharmaceutical interventions or measures intended to prevent
the spread of a contagious disease by maintaining a physical distance
between people and reducing the number of times people come into close
contact with each other.
wikipedia:
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a number of non-pharmaceutical
interventions colloquially known as lockdowns (encompassing stay-at-home
orders, curfews, quarantines, cordons sanitaires and similar societal
restrictions) have been implemented in numerous countries and
territories around the world.

wikipedia:
COVID-19 lockdowns by country.

bbc:
Covid-19: What is the new three tier system after lockdown?
wikipedia:
A telephone directory, commonly called a telephone book, telephone
address book, phonebook, or the white and yellow pages, is a listing of
telephone subscribers in a geographical area or subscribers to services
provided by the organization that publishes the directory.
cdc:
It’s important to keep your blood sugar levels in your target range as
much as possible to help prevent or delay long-term, serious health
problems, such as heart disease, vision loss, and kidney disease.
wikipedia: Whisky
or whiskey is a type of distilled alcoholic beverage made from fermented
grain mash.
wikipedia:
Powerade is a sports drink created, manufactured and marketed by The
Coca-Cola Company.
katexic:
busthead (bust-head). noun. Cheap, strong liquor, usually of the illegal
variety.
skrewballwhiskey:
The Original Peanut Butter Whiskey.
olesmoky:
Peanut Butter Whiskey.
thepartysource:
Blind Squirrel Peanut Butter Whiskey 750 ml.

Thanks To:
Mumble Server: Delwin
HPR Site/VPS: Joshua Knapp - AnHonestHost.com
Streams: Honkeymagoo
EtherPad: HonkeyMagoo
Shownotes by: Sgoti and hplovecraft
