## hpr3874 :: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 9

 Episode #9

wikipedia: MS-DOS
is an operating system for x86-based personal computers mostly developed
by Microsoft.
freedos: FreeDOS is a
complete, free, DOS-compatible operating system. While we provide some
utilities, you should be able to run any program intended for
MS-DOS.
wikipedia: Linux
(/ˈliːnʊks/ (listen) LEE-nuuks or /ˈlɪnʊks/ LIN-uuks) is a family of
open-source Unix-like operating systems based on the Linux kernel, an
operating system kernel first released on September 17, 1991, by Linus
Torvalds.
wikipedia:
Token Ring is a computer networking technology used to build local area
networks. It was introduced by IBM in 1984, and standardized in 1989 as
IEEE 802.5.
wikipedia:
The BNC connector (initialism of "Bayonet Neill–Concelman") is a
miniature quick connect/disconnect radio frequency connector used for
coaxial cable.
wikipedia:
GPRS core network.
wikipedia:
Novell, Inc. /noʊˈvɛl/ was an American software and services company
headquartered in Provo, Utah, that existed from 1980 until 2014.
wikipedia:
BITNET.
wikipedia:
DECnet.
wikipedia:
3Com.
realtek: realtek.
tp: TP-Link Vastly Expands
Smart Home Lineup With Tapo Full Home Security Solutions, Tapo Robot
Vacuums and Various Matter Compatible Products.
cisco: Cisco Systems, Inc.,
commonly known as Cisco, is an American-based multinational digital
communications technology conglomerate corporation headquartered in San
Jose, California.
wikipedia: The
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), nicknamed Big Blue,
is an American multinational technology corporation headquartered in
Armonk, New York, with operations in over 175 countries. It specializes
in computer hardware, middleware and software and provides hosting and
consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to
nanotechnology.
duckduckgo:
Bootleg stuff search.
wikipedia:
VM (often: VM/CMS) is a family of IBM virtual machine operating systems
used on IBM mainframes System/370, System/390, zSeries, System z and
compatible systems, including the Hercules emulator for personal
computers.
wikipedia:
Disk partitioning or disk slicing is the creation of one or more regions
on secondary storage, so that each region can be managed
separately.
wikipedia: The
IBM System/360 is a family of mainframe computer systems that was
announced by IBM on April 7, 1964, and delivered between 1965 and
1978.
wikipedia: The
IBM System/370 (S/370) is a model range of IBM mainframe computers
announced on June 30, 1970, as the successors to the System/360
family.
cisco:
What Is Routing?
wikipedia:
The Internet protocol suite, commonly known as TCP/IP, is a framework
for organizing the set of communication protocols used in the Internet
and similar computer networks according to functional criteria.
wikipedia:
The Open Systems Interconnection protocols are a family of information
exchange standards developed jointly by the ISO and the ITU-T. The
standardization process began in 1977.
perl: Perl is a highly capable,
feature-rich programming language with over 30 years of
development.
wikipedia: An
FTP server is computer software consisting of one or more programs that
can execute commands given by remote client(s) such as receiving,
sending, deleting files, creating or removing directories, etc.
wikipedia: The
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is a research and
development agency of the United States Department of Defense
responsible for the development of emerging technologies for use by the
military.
wikipedia: The
Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET) was the first
wide-area packet-switched network with distributed control and one of
the first networks to implement the TCP/IP protocol suite.
wikipedia: A
modulator-demodulator or modem is a computer hardware device that
converts data from a digital format into a format suitable for an analog
transmission medium such as telephone or radio.
wikipedia: Telnet
(short for "teletype network") is a client/server application protocol
that provides access to virtual terminals of remote systems on local
area networks or the Internet.
wikipedia:
Remote Function Call is a proprietary SAP interface.
icannwiki: BBN (Bolt,
Beranek and Newman Inc.), now Raytheon BBN Technologies, is one of the
leading Research and Development companies in the United States,
dedicated to providing high-technology products and services to
consumers.
wikipedia:
A punched card (also punch card or punched-card) is a piece of stiff
paper that holds digital data represented by the presence or absence of
holes in predefined positions.
wikipedia:
Punched tape or perforated paper tape is a form of data storage that
consists of a long strip of paper in which holes are punched.
wikipedia: A
teleprinter (teletypewriter, teletype or TTY) is an electromechanical
device that can be used to send and receive typed messages through
various communications channels, in both point-to-point and
point-to-multipoint configurations.
wikipedia:
Teletype Model 33.
wikipedia:
Teletype Model 37.
wikipedia: Unix
(/ˈjuːnɪks/; trademarked as UNIX) is a family of multitasking, multiuser
computer operating systems that derive from the original AT&T Unix,
whose development started in 1969 at the Bell Labs research center by
Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others.
wikipedia:
Wang Laboratories was a US computer company founded in 1951 by An Wang
and G. Y. Chu.
wikipedia:
Library (computing).
wikipedia:
Magnetic-core memory was the predominant form of random-access computer
memory for 20 years between about 1955 and 1975.
BASIC BASIC
(Beginners' All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) is a family of
general-purpose, high-level programming languages designed for ease of
use. The original version was created by John G. Kemeny and Thomas E.
Kurtz at Dartmouth College in 1963.
wikipedia:
Microsoft BASIC is the foundation software product of the Microsoft
company and evolved into a line of BASIC interpreters and compiler(s)
adapted for many different microcomputers. It first appeared in 1975 as
Altair BASIC, which was the first version of BASIC published by
Microsoft as well as the first high-level programming language available
for the Altair 8800 microcomputer.
wikipedia: A
floppy disk or floppy diskette (casually referred to as a floppy, or a
diskette) is an obsolescent type of disk storage composed of a thin and
flexible disk of a magnetic storage medium in a square or nearly square
plastic enclosure lined with a fabric that removes dust particles from
the spinning disk.
wikipedia: A
tape drive is a data storage device that reads and writes data on a
magnetic tape.
wikipedia: In
computer engineering, microarchitecture, also called computer
organization and sometimes abbreviated as µarch or uarch, is the way a
given instruction set architecture (ISA) is implemented in a particular
processor.
wikipedia: A
microsleep is a sudden temporary episode of sleep or drowsiness which
may last for a few seconds where an individual fails to respond to some
arbitrary sensory input and becomes unconscious.
clevo: We
offer over 50 models from CLEVO.

wikipedia: Clevo
is a Taiwanese OEM/ODM computer manufacturer which produces laptop
computers exclusively.

wikipedia:
Rapid transit or mass rapid transit (MRT), also known as heavy rail or
metro, is a type of high-capacity public transport generally found in
urban areas.
wikipedia:
Cracker Jack is an American brand of snack food that consists of
molasses-flavored, caramel-coated popcorn, and peanuts, well known for
being packaged with a prize of trivial value inside.
gov: UK
Driver's Licence.

gov:
Legal obligations of drivers and riders.

sheilaswheels: We keep
our Sheilas happy by supplying fabulous 5 Star Defaqto rated car and
home insurance, and that's helped us to become one of the UK's leading
direct insurers.
nestle:
Yorkie was launched in 1976 by Rowntree's of York hence the name.
wikipedia:
Joyriding refers to driving or riding in a stolen vehicle, most commonly
a car, with no particular goal other than the pleasure or thrill of
doing so or to impress other people.
oggcamp: OggCamp is an
unconference celebrating Free Culture, Free and Open Source Software,
hardware hacking, digital rights, and all manner of collaborative
cultural activities and is committed to creating a conference that is as
inclusive as possible.
ubuntu: Ubuntu is a Linux
distribution based on Debian and composed mostly of free and open-source
software.

wikipedia:
Ubuntu.
wikipedia:
Mark Shuttleworth.

ubuntu:
Ubuntu tablet press pack.
stallman: Richard Stallman's
Personal Site.
elementary: The thoughtful,
capable, and ethical replacement for Windows and macOS.
slackware: The Slackware
Linux Project.
wikipedia:
identi.ca was a free and open-source social networking and blogging
service based on the pump.io software, using the Activity Streams
protocol.
wikipedia:
GNU social (previously known as StatusNet and once known as Laconica) is
a free and open source software microblogging server written in PHP that
implements the OStatus standard for interoperation between
installations.
wikipedia:
Friendica (formerly Friendika, originally Mistpark) is a free and
open-source software distributed social network.
lugcast: We are an open
Podcast/LUG that meets every first and third Friday of every month using
mumble.
toastmasters
Toastmasters International is a nonprofit educational organization that
teaches public speaking and leadership skills through a worldwide
network of clubs.
wikipedia:
Motorola, Inc. (/ˌmoʊtəˈroʊlə/) was an American multinational
telecommunications company based in Schaumburg, Illinois, United
States.
volla: Volla
Phone.
ubports: We are building a secure
& private operating system for your smartphone.
sailfishos: The mobile OS with
built-in privacy.
calyxos: CalyxOS is an operating
system for smartphones based on Android with mostly free and open-source
software.
wikipedia:
WhatsApp.
IRC IRC
is short for Internet Relay Chat. It is a popular chat service still in
use today.
zoom: Unified communication and
collaboration platform.
jitsi: Jitsi Free &
Open Source Video Conferencing Projects.
joinmastodon: Mastodon is
free and open-source software for running self-hosted social networking
services.
wikipedia:
Karen Sandler is the executive director of the Software Freedom
Conservancy, former executive director of the GNOME Foundation, an
attorney, and former general counsel of the Software Freedom Law
Center.
fosdem: FOSDEM is a free
event for software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate.
southeastlinuxfest:
The SouthEast LinuxFest is a community event for anyone who wants to
learn more about Linux and Open Source Software.
olfconference: OLF
(formerly known as Ohio LinuxFest) is a grassroots conference for the
GNU/Linux/Open Source Software/Free Software community that started in
2003 as a large inter-LUG (Linux User Group) meeting and has grown
steadily since.
linuxfests: A home for
educational programs focused on free and open source software &
culture.
wikipedia:
Notacon (pronounced "not-a-con") was an art and technology conference
which took place annually in Cleveland, Ohio from 2003 to 2014.
penpalworld: a place where
you can meet over 3,000,000 pen pals from every country on the
planet.
redhat:
Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
openssl: The OpenSSL Project
develops and maintains the OpenSSL software - a robust,
commercial-grade, full-featured toolkit for general-purpose cryptography
and secure communication.
STEM
wikipedia:
Obsessive–compulsive disorder.
cdc:
Autism.
wikipedia:
Asperger syndrome.
askubuntu:
Manual partitioning during installation.
wikipedia:
Colon cancer staging.
cdc:
Get Vaccinated Before You Travel.
sqlite: SQLite is a
C-language library that implements a small, fast, self-contained,
high-reliability, full-featured, SQL database engine.
wikipedia:
Facial recognition system.
wikipedia:
Tribalism is the state of being organized by, or advocating for, tribes
or tribal lifestyles.
wikipedia:
Southern hospitality.
wikipedia: The
Kroger Company, or simply Kroger, is an American retail company that
operates (either directly or through its subsidiaries) supermarkets and
multi-department stores throughout the United States.
wikipedia:
Prosopagnosia, more commonly known as face blindness, is a cognitive
disorder of face perception in which the ability to recognize familiar
faces, including one's own face, is impaired, while other aspects of
visual processing and intellectual functioning remain intact.
wikipedia:
T-Mobile is the brand name used by some of the mobile communications
subsidiaries of the German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom
AG in the Czech Republic, Poland, the United States and by the former
subsidiary in the Netherlands.
stackexchange:
Where did the phrase "batsh-t crazy" come from?
wikipedia: A
conspiracy theory is an explanation for an event or situation that
asserts the existence of a conspiracy by powerful and sinister groups,
often political in motivation, when other explanations are more
probable.
brigs: At Brigs, we want
everyone to get exactly what they're craving!
papajohns: Papa Johns.
dominos: Domino's Pizza,
Inc., trading as Domino's, is a Michigan-based multinational pizza
restaurant chain founded in 1960 and led by CEO Russell Weiner.
wikipedia:
Loitering is the act of remaining in a particular public place for a
prolonged amount of time without any apparent purpose.
wikipedia:
Psychiatric hospitals, also known as mental health hospitals, behavioral
health hospitals, are hospitals or wards specializing in the treatment
of severe mental disorders, such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder,
eating disorders, dissociative identity disorder, major depressive
disorder and many others.
wikipedia:
Therapist is a person who offers any kinds of therapy.

Thanks To:
Mumble Server: Delwin
HPR Site/VPS: Joshua Knapp - AnHonestHost.com
Streams: Honkeymagoo
EtherPad: HonkeyMagoo
Shownotes by: Sgoti and hplovecraft
