## hpr3779 :: Just Because You Can Do a Thing... 

 Hello Hacker Public Radio fans. This is Trey, and I am throwing this
recording together for several reasons:

The queue of shows is abysmally sparse. There are far more
openings for shows in the next few weeks than there are shows
posted.
This show is a pitiful excuse for why I haven't posted any shows
recently

If you like what you hear on Hacker Public Radio, please express your
gratitude by recording your own show. It doesn't need to be long, or
sound professional, or anything. Introduce yourself and share something
you find interesting.
If you do not like any or all of what you hear on Hacker Public
Radio, then it is the perfect opportunity for you to take a few minutes
and record a short (or long) podcast of your own which "fills the gap"
of what you might feel is needed on HPR.
Alright. Enough preliminaries.
A long time ago, at an undisclosed university far, far away, I took
my first class about Ethics. One of the things I remember most was the
question of "Just because you can do a thing, does that mean you should
do the thing?"
This was applied to many different scenarios - from nation states
building weapons of mass destruction, to authoring computer viruses, and
even to saying what you are thinking at any given moment.
It should quickly become obvious that you should not always do a
thing simply because you can do it. And today, I would like to relate
that to DIY home improvement projects, especially as we work our way up
in years.
For regular listeners, you may recall my series "Everything You
Always Wanted to Knox about PEX" recorded and shared in May through July
of 2022 (hpr3604, hpr3614, hpr3624 & hpr3634). In
this series, I recounted the process of replumbing my home using PEX
with helpful advice for anyone else who wants to try it. What I did not
realize at the time I was doing the project was the toll that doing so
much work overhead, by myself, was taking on my old shoulder joints. It
was only one straw, but a rather significant one, which eventually broke
the camel's back. Or, in my case, resulted in several severe tears in my
rotator cuff and bicep tendon.
Therapy was marginally effective, and surgery was eventually required
to put things back together the way they belonged. My effort to save
money and do the project myself "Because I could" helped lead to
significantly more expenses and more than a year of recovery.
I am not sharing this for sympathy, but rather because I learned
something important. Now that I am getting older, as I decide which
projects I should do myself and which to pay professionals to do, it is
important to factor in the potential impact on my body, my mind and
those around me, even if all goes well.
Just because you can do a thing does not necessarily mean you should
do a thing.
Unless that "Thing" is recording a podcast for HPR. THAT is something
you can and should do.
