## hpr3854 :: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 7

 Episode #7

huffpost:
Vintage Slang Terms For Being Drunk Are Hilarious A Century Later.
theshrimpfarm:
Red Cherry Shrimp are one of the simplest animals to breed in the
aquarium.
wikipedia:
This is a family tree of the Habsburg family.

youtube:
THE HABSBURG: Their Inbred Family Tree was a Circle!- Explained with
Real Life Faces.

ancestry: Ancestry helps you
understand your genealogy.
wikipedia: The
AK-47, officially known as the Avtomat Kalashnikova (Russian: Автомат
Калашникова, lit.

wikipedia:
Mikhail Timofeyevich Kalashnikov, IPA: 10 November 1919 – 23 December
2013) was a Soviet and Russian lieutenant general, inventor, military
engineer, writer, and small arms designer.

youtube:
Review new SV-18 12.7mm .50 caliber Kalashnikov sniper rifle Army-2019
defense exhibition Russia.
wikipedia: The
Gulag was the government agency in charge of the Soviet network of
forced labour camps which were set up by order of Vladimir Lenin,
reaching its peak during Joseph Stalin's rule from the 1930s to the
early 1950s.
techandcoffee: A virtual
water cooler for the world of tech.
wikipedia: A
hippie, also spelled hippy, especially in British English, is someone
associated with the counterculture of the 1960s, originally a youth
movement that began in the United States during the mid-1960s and spread
to different countries around the world.
wikipedia: In
modern English, cult is a term, by some considered pejorative, for a
social group that is defined by its unusual religious, spiritual, or
philosophical beliefs and rituals, or its common interest in a
particular personality, object, or goal.
wikipedia: A deity
or god is a supernatural being who is considered divine or sacred.
youtube:
Marty Moose Theme Song.
wikipedia:
Doogie Howser, M.D. is an American medical sitcom that ran for four
seasons on ABC from September 19, 1989, to March 24, 1993, totaling 97
episodes.
wikipedia:
Google+ (pronounced and sometimes written as Google Plus; sometimes
called G+) was a social network owned and operated by Google. The
network was launched on June 28, 2011, in an attempt to challenge other
social networks, linking other Google products like Google Drive,
Blogger and YouTube.
wikipedia:
Google Hangouts is a discontinued cross-platform instant messaging
service developed by Google.
wikipedia: Mr.
Robot is an American drama thriller television series created by Sam
Esmail for USA Network.
kali: Kali Linux is an
open-source, Debian-based Linux distribution geared towards various
information security tasks, such as Penetration Testing, Security
Research, Computer Forensics and Reverse Engineering.
crunchbang: CrunchBang was a
Debian GNU/Linux based distribution offering a great blend of speed,
style and substance.
bunsenlabs: BunsenLabs
Linux Beryllium is a distribution offering a light-weight and easily
customizable Openbox desktop.
HPR: So
you want to do a podcast?
pcbway: Professional PCB
prototype with guaranteed quality for PCB prototype, We can produce
high-quality PCBs with competitive price both for prototypes and low
volumes.
mouser: Mouser Electronics
stocks the world’s widest selection of semiconductors and electronic
components.
wikipedia: An
analog computer or analogue computer is a type of computer that uses the
continuous variation aspect of physical phenomena such as electrical,
mechanical, or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being
solved.
olfconference: OLF
(formerly known as Ohio LinuxFest) is a grassroots conference for the
GNU/Linux/Open Source Software/Free Software community that started in
2003 as a large inter-LUG (Linux User Group) meeting and has grown
steadily since.
joinmastodon: Mastodon is
free and open-source software for running self-hosted social networking
services.
wikipedia:
Whose Line Is It Anyway? is a short-form improvisational comedy show
originating as a British radio programme, before moving to British
television in 1988.
wikipedia:
A Doctor of Philosophy (PhD, Ph.D., or DPhil; Latin: philosophiae doctor
or doctor philosophiae) is the most common degree at the highest
academic level awarded following a course of study.
wikipedia:
Deadpan, dry humour, or dry-wit humour is the deliberate display of
emotional neutrality or no emotion, commonly as a form of comedic
delivery to contrast with the ridiculousness or absurdity of the subject
matter.
wikipedia:
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that usually
starts slowly and progressively worsens. It is the cause of 60–70% of
cases of dementia.
wikipedia:
Sarcasm is the caustic use of words, often in a humorous way, to mock
someone or something.
distrohoppersdigest:
We are three Blokes who love Linux and trying out new stuff.
vim: Vim - the ubiquitous text
editor.
wikipedia: vi
(pronounced as distinct letters, /ˌviːˈaɪ/)[1] is a screen-oriented text
editor originally created for the Unix operating system.
nano: Text Editor
Homepage.
gnu:
emacs is an extensible, customizable, free/libre text
editor — and more.
kate: Kate is packed with
features that will make it easier for you to view and edit all your text
files.
gnome:
Welcome to the gedit help guide.
microsoft:
Windows Notepad.
microsoft:
Microsoft OneNote. Your digital notebook.
microsoft:
Use Snipping Tool to capture screenshots.
gimp: GIMP is a free and
open-source raster graphics editor used for image manipulation and image
editing, free-form drawing, transcoding between different image file
formats, and more specialized tasks.
krita: Krita is a professional FREE
and open source painting program.
urbandictionary:
big spoon.
birddogwhiskey: Bird Dog
Whiskey.
wikipedia:
Sambuca is an Italian anise-flavoured, usually colourless, liqueur.
wikipedia:
Amaretto is a sweet Italian liqueur that originated in Saronno.
newyorker:
Cooties: A Medical Guide.
wikipedia:
Pokémon (an abbreviation for Pocket Monsters in Japan) is a Japanese
media franchise managed by The Pokémon Company, founded by Nintendo,
Game Freak, and Creatures.
faa:
Part 107 Airspace Authorizations.
scottsigler:
Galactic Football League (series).
audible: Try Audible free for
30 days! Start listening to best-selling audiobooks, exclusive
Originals, and free podcasts with the Audible app.
johnconroe:
Zone War.
wikipedia:
Nathan Lowell is a science fiction writer mostly known for his The
Golden Age of the Solar Clipper series.
michaelsullivan:
Welcome to the Worlds of Michael J. Sullivan.
koreaherald:
crab migration season in korea.
duckduckgo:
Tarantula migration.
wikipedia:
Candiru (fish).
wikipedia:
Ballooning, sometimes called kiting, is a process by which spiders, and
some other small invertebrates, move through the air by releasing one or
more gossamer threads to catch the wind, causing them to become airborne
at the mercy of air currents and electric fields.
dictionary:
Sportsball is a mildly critical or humorous term used by people who
admit they don’t know or care about sports.
wikipedia:
Thelyphonida is an arachnid order comprising invertebrates commonly
known as whip scorpions or vinegaroons (also spelled vinegarroons and
vinegarones).
wikipedia:
Solifugae is an order of animals in the class Arachnida known variously
as camel spiders, wind scorpions, sun spiders, or solifuges.
wikipedia:
Banana spider (many types of banana spider).
tullamoredew:
Tullamore Dew, rendered in most branding as Tullamore D.E.W., is a brand
of Irish whiskey produced by William Grant & Sons.
wikipedia:
The Yellowstone Caldera, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone
Supervolcano, is a volcanic caldera and supervolcano in Yellowstone
National Park in the Western United States.
wikipedia:
A superstition is any belief or practice considered by non-practitioners
to be irrational or supernatural, attributed to fate or magic, perceived
supernatural influence, or fear of that which is unknown.
murdermittens: Look at
all dem cattos!
wikipedia: A
feral cat or a stray cat is an unowned domestic cat (Felis catus) that
lives outdoors and avoids human contact: it does not allow itself to be
handled or touched, and usually remains hidden from humans.
wikipedia:
The following list of cat breeds includes only domestic cat breeds and
domestic and wild hybrids.
skullcandy: Discover life
at full volume with headphones, earbuds, speakers & more.
whataburger: The
Whataburger.
wikipedia: Zardoz
is a 1974 science fantasy film written, produced, and directed by John
Boorman and starring Sean Connery and Charlotte Rampling.
1more:
1MORE Triple Driver In-Ear Headphones.
lg:
LG TONE PRO Wireless Stereo Headset.
duckduckgo:
skullcandy 2xl headphones.
components101:
3.5mm Audio Jack (Male).
The Linux link tech show The
Linux Link Tech Show is one of the longest running Linux podcasts in the
world.
hak5: Hak5 advances InfoSec through
award winning podcasts, leading pentest gear and an inclusive community
— where all hackers belong.
sweetwater:
Shure AONIC 215 Sound Isolating Earphones.
creality:
CR-10S Pro V2 3D Printer.
duckduckgo:
monoprice maker select v2 search.
elegoo:
ELEGOO Saturn 4K Mono LCD MSLA Resin 3D Printer.
anycubic:
Anycubic Photon.
jitsi: Jitsi Free &
Open Source Video Conferencing Projects.
atari: The
new Atari VCS™ Wireless Classic Joystick includes features like paddle
control, rumble, LED light effects, and a second fire button to give
retro gaming new life.
ebay:
OEM Original Atari 7800 Pro Line Joystick Controller.
ebay:
LG HBS-1100.
sony:
WF-XB700 Wireless Headphones with EXTRA BASS.
skullcandy:
skullcandy hesh 3.
skullcandy:
skullcandy crusher.
samsung:
Level U Wireless Headphones.

Thanks To:
Mumble Server: Delwin
HPR Site/VPS: Joshua Knapp - AnHonestHost.com
Streams: Honkeymagoo
EtherPad: HonkeyMagoo
Shownotes by: Sgoti and hplovecraft
