## hpr3983 :: ChatGPT Output is not compatible with CC-BY-SA

 When uploading to HPR you are
You are
agreeing to license your show CC-BY-SA.

All our shows are now released under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) license, which
means that while you continue to retain the copyright to your show, you
are allowing us (and everyone else) to use it provided we give you
attribution and that we release it under the same license. Click the
link for more information.

The
Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)
license itself says that sharing (the S in CC-BY-SA), allows you to
"copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format for any
purpose, even commercially".
On the face of it the
OpenAI
ChatGPT Terms of use seem similar, with Section 3 saying "you can
use Content for any purpose, including commercial purposes".
Unfortunately they then go on to say "Subject to your compliance with
these Terms":
      3. Content

      (a) Your Content. You may provide input to the Services (“Input”), and
      receive output generated and returned by the Services based on the Input
      (“Output”). Input and Output are collectively “Content.” As between the
      parties and to the extent permitted by applicable law, you own all
      Input. Subject to your compliance with these Terms, OpenAI hereby
      assigns to you all its right, title and interest in and to Output. This
      means you can use Content for any purpose, including commercial purposes
      such as sale or publication, if you comply with these Terms. OpenAI may
      use Content to provide and maintain the Services, comply with applicable
      law, and enforce our policies. You are responsible for Content,
      including for ensuring that it does not violate any applicable law or
      these Terms.
The same document lists some restrictions...
      2. Usage Requirements

      (c) Restrictions. You may not (i) use the Services in a way that
      infringes, misappropriates or violates any person’s rights; (ii) reverse
      assemble, reverse compile, decompile, translate or otherwise attempt to
      discover the source code or underlying components of models, algorithms,
      and systems of the Services (except to the extent such restrictions are
      contrary to applicable law); (iii) use output from the Services to
      develop models that compete with OpenAI;
... while the
Usage policies
list more.
So in my opinion, and I am not a lawyer (IANAL) the
OpenAI
ChatGPT Terms of use is not compatible with the
Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)
license.
You can of course refer to ChatGPT as you would any other non
Creative Commons site.
If you disagree or would like to weigh in please discuss this on the
mail list.
