## hpr3868 :: News.

 News.


If you like it, help me name it.
Article: Cambria
County Woman Charged With Conspiracy To Commit Health Care
Fraud.


Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, Middle District of
Pennsylvania. (2023, May 11).

The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of
Pennsylvania announced that Florentina Mayko, age 39, of Cambria County,
Pennsylvania, was charged by criminal information with one count of
conspiracy to commit health care fraud for defrauding Medicare and the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services between 2017 and
2019.


Article: Congressman
George Santos Charged with Fraud, Money Laundering, Theft of Public
Funds, and False Statements.


Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, Eastern District of
New York. (2023, May 10).

A 13-count indictment was unsealed today in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York charging George
Anthony Devolder Santos, better known as “George Santos,” a United
States Congressman representing the Third District of New York, with
seven counts of wire fraud, three counts of money laundering, one count
of theft of public funds, and two counts of making materially false
statements to the House of Representatives.


Article: New York Man
Admits Credit Card Fraud.


Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, District of New
Jersey. (2023, May 10).

During 2015, Lourenco opened 23 credit cards using the identities of
three victims he had befriended, two of whom were senior citizens.
Lourenco’s victims did not know he was using their identities to obtain
the credit cards, nor did they authorize Lourenco to obtain the credit
cards. Lourenco used the 23 credit cards to make more than $423,000 in
unauthorized purchases. He also used the debit card for a joint bank
account belonging to two of the victims to make an additional $57,000 in
unauthorized charges. Lourenco admitted that he knew at least one of his
victims was a vulnerable victim when he used the victim’s identity to
commit his crime.


Article: Okmulgee
County Resident Sentenced For Brutal Murder.


Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, Eastern District of
Oklahoma. (2023, May 9).

Lewis pleaded guilty to Murder in Indian Country—Second Degree on
September 30, 2021. The investigation of the case revealed Lewis beat
the victim to death with a television and a coat rack after an evening
of drinking at the victim’s apartment. Police investigating an Emergency
Medical Services call discovered the victim lying on the floor of his
apartment and Lewis covered in the victim’s blood.


Article: California
Man Convicted of Health Care Kickback Conspiracy.


Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, Eastern District of
Texas. (2023, May 9).

According to information presented in court, Donofrio conspired with
others to pay and receive kickbacks in exchange for the referral of, and
arranging for, health care business, specifically pharmacogenetic (PGx)
tests. Pharmacogenetic testing, also known as pharmacogenomic testing,
is a type of genetic testing that identifies genetic variations that
affect how an individual patient metabolizes certain drugs. The illegal
arrangement concerned the referral of PGx tests to clinical laboratories
in Fountain Valley, California; Irvine, California; and San Diego,
California. More than $28 million in illegal kickback payments were
exchanged by those involved in the conspiracy.





License: Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
This
work is licensed under a
Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

