## hpr3921 :: HPR AudioBook Club 23 - John Carter of Mars (Books 1-3)

 In
this episode the HPR Audiobook Club discusses the audiobooks A
Princess of Mars, The
Gods of Mars, and The
Warlord of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs

Non-Spoiler Thoughts


Burroughs is kind of verbose, which is symbolic of the time period
in which it was written.

Beverage Reviews


Thaj: Tempting fate with a tall glass of the highly
toxic, Dihydrogen
Monoxide
x1101: Shipyard
Little Horror of Hops Its a very amber IPA
Pokey: Yellow Tail
Chardonay Its definitely a chardonay in flavor. You can taste the
cost effectiveness up front, but it mellows out on the finish, and is
pretty okay for the price on average.
FiftyOneFifty: Funky Pumpkin spiced
pumpkin ale
Mark: Lagunitas IPA

Things We Talked About


Chat Secure secure XMPP,
Think of the children!!!
Technology on Barsoom
Deus Ex Machina much???
Names in fantasy books

Our Next Audiobook

See
You At The Morgue by Lawrence Blochman
The Next Audiobook Club
Recording

Right now we are working through a backlog of older episode that have
already been recorded. Once that ends we fully anticipate recording new
episodes with listener participation.
Feedback

Thank you very much for listening to this episode of the HPR
AudioBookClub. We had a great time recording this show, and we hope you
enjoyed it as well. We also hope you'll consider joining us next time we
record a new episode. Please leave a few words in the episode's comment
section.
As always; remember to visit the HPR contribution page HPR could
really use your help right now.
Sincerely, The HPR Audiobook Club
P.S. Some people really like finding mistakes. For their enjoyment,
we always include a few.
Our Audio

This episode was processed using Audacity. We've been making
small adjustments to our audio mix each month in order to get the best
possible sound. Its been especially challenging getting all of our
voices relatively level, because everyone has their own unique setup.
Mumble is great for bringing us all together, and for recording, but
it's not good at making everyone's voice the same volume. We're pretty
happy with the way this month's show turned out, so we'd like to share
our editing process and settings with you and our future selves (who, of
course, will have forgotten all this by then).
We use the "Truncate Silence" effect with it's default settings to
minimize the silence between people speaking. When used with it's
default (or at least reasonable) settings, Truncate Silence is extremely
effective and satisfying. It makes everyone sound smarter, it makes the
file shorter without destroying actual content, and it makes a
conversations sound as easy and fluid during playback as it was while it
was recorded. It can be even more effective if you can train yourself to
remain silent instead of saying "uuuuummmm." Just remember to ONLY pass
the file through Truncate Silence ONCE. If you pass it through a second
time, or if you set it too aggressively your audio may sound sped up and
choppy.
Next we use the "Compressor" effect with the following settings:
Threshold: -30db

Noise Floor: -50db

Ratio: 3:1

Attack Time: 0.2sec

Decay Time: 1.0 sec
"Make-up Gain for 0db after compressing" and "compress based on
peaks" were both left un-checked.
After compressing the audio we cut any pre-show and post-show chatter
from the file and save them in a separate file for possible use as
outtakes after the closing music.
We adjust the Gain so that the VU meter in Audacity hovers around
-12db while people are speaking, and we try to keep the peaks under
-6db, and we adjust the Gain on each of the new tracks so that all
volumes are similar, and more importantly comfortable. Once this is done
we can "Mix and Render" all of our tracks into a single track for export
to the .FLAC file which is uploaded to the HPR server.
At this point we listen back to the whole file and we work on the
shownotes. This is when we can cut out anything that needs to be cut,
and we can also make sure that we put any links in the shownotes that
were talked about during the recording of the show. We finish the
shownotes before exporting the .aup file to .FLAC so that we can paste a
copy of the shownotes into the audio file's metadata.
At this point we add new, empty audio tracks into which we paste the
intro, outro and possibly outtakes, and we rename each track
accordingly.
Remember to save often when using Audacity. We like to save after
each of these steps. Audacity has a reputation for being "crashy" but if
you remember save after every major transform, you will wonder how it
ever got that reputation.
Attribution

Record
Scratch Creative Commons 0
