## hpr3769 :: Crouching laptop, hidden server (part 0).

 Crouching laptop, hidden
server (part 0).
Virtualized battlegrounds.

Archer72's system: Acer
Aspire 5750-6866

CPU: Intel Core i3 2350M (2.3 GHz max, 2 cores, 3MB cache).
RAM: 4GB DDR3-1600 SODIMM (2 x 2GB currently, 2 x 4GB upgrade
planned).
Video: Integrated Intel GMA HD 3000.
DISK: 120GB SATA SSD.
NIC: Integrated 1000 mbps.

802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi.
Bluetooth not installed.


SGOTI's system: HP Notebook
14-ck0052cl

CPU: Intel Core i3-8130U (2.2 GHz - 4 GHz max, 2 cores, 4MB
cache).
RAM: 16GB DDR4-2400 SDRAM (2 x 8GB, upgraded).
Video: Integrated Intel UHD Graphics 620.
DISK: 1TB 5400 rpm SATA HDD (with empty m.2 SATA slot).
NIC: Integrated 10/100/1000 GbE LAN.

802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi & Bluetooth 4.2 combo.




Software
and documumentation mentioned during the show.

Running Laptop, server style, with the Lid closed.

Edit logind.conf
sudo vim /etc/systemd/logind.conf.
Remove the # from these lines then set values to
ignore:

HandleSuspendkey=ignore
HandleLidSwitch=ignore
HandleLidSwitchDocked=ignore

Save then quit.

I'm not going to tell you how ;)

Finally, restart systemd-logind.

sudo systemctl restart systemd-logind.service



Way of the Archer72.

Proxmox Homepage.

Proxmox VE is a complete open-source platform for enterprise
virtualization. With the built-in web interface you can easily manage
VMs and containers, software-defined storage and networking,
high-availability clustering, and multiple out-of-the-box tools on a
single solution.
Proxmox backup
documentation.
Proxmox
backup documentation .pdf download.
Proxmox video
tutorials
Proxmox
wiki.
Proxmox vLAN
networking information.
Proxmox
NAT config information.

Youtube
video: install/config Proxmox.
Duck DNS

hosted on AWS, with no upfront cost to the user.
Dynamic DNS service; dynamically update DNS records without the need
for human interaction. Connect to your home/local network from a remote
network using a domain name instead of an IP address.


Way of the SGOTI.

RHEL
Documentation: Creating guests with virt-install

RHEL
9 product documentation list
You can use the virt-install command to create virtual
machines and install operating system on those virtual machines from the
command line. virt-install can be used either interactively
or as part of a script to automate the creation of virtual
machines.

virt-manager

The virt-manager application is a desktop user
interface for managing virtual machines through libvirt. It primarily
targets KVM VMs, but also manages Xen and LXC (linux containers).
virt-install is a command line tool which provides an
easy way to provision operating systems into virtual machines.
virt-viewer is a lightweight UI interface for
interacting with the graphical display of virtualized guest OS. It can
display VNC or SPICE, and uses libvirt to lookup the graphical
connection details.
virt-clone is a command line tool for cloning existing
inactive guests. It copies the disk images, and defines a config with
new name, UUID and MAC address pointing to the copied disks.
virt-xml is a command line tool for easily editing
libvirt domain XML using virt-install’s command line options.
virt-bootstrap is a command line tool providing an easy
way to setup the root file system for libvirt-based containers.

qemu documentation

qemu
wiki: User documentation
qemu wiki: KVM

KVM homepage

KVM (for Kernel-based Virtual Machine) is a full virtualization
solution for Linux on x86 hardware containing virtualization extensions
(Intel VT or AMD-V). It consists of a loadable kernel module, kvm.ko,
that provides the core virtualization infrastructure and a processor
specific module, kvm-intel.ko or kvm-amd.ko.
Using KVM, one can run multiple virtual machines running unmodified
Linux or Windows images. Each virtual machine has private virtualized
hardware: a network card, disk, graphics adapter, etc.

Cockpit

Cockpit is a web-based graphical interface for servers, intended for
everyone.
RHEL
9: web console/cockpit documentation
Cockpit
Deployment Guide
RHEL intro
to Cockpit guide.

Youtube
video: Fedora server on a Laptop.

14:45, editing /etc/systemd/logind.conf

Youtube
video: Deploying Nextcloud AIO containers.

Additional Information.

What
is an IP address?
What's my IP
address?
What is
DDNS?
Cloudflare
DDNS glossary
How To Forward a Port.

A port forward is a way of making a computer on your home or
business network accessible to computers on the internet, even though
they are behind a router or firewall. It is commonly used in gaming,
security cameras, home automation, and the Internet of Things (IoT).
Port forwards are setup in your router. A forwarded port is also known
as open. After you have forwarded a port you have an open port.

List of
DDNS solutions (with no upfront cost to the user).
Duck Duck Go Search for Dynamic
DNS

