## hpr3788 :: Nitecore Tube torch

 
Introduction
This torch (aka flashlight) came up during the recording of
the Community News for May 2022. I have owned an example of this device
since 2016. It’s been extensively reviewed elsewhere but I thought I’d
briefly tell you about my experiences.
Nitecore Tube (V1)


My Nitecore Tube

I bought this from Amazon after seeing a video of it on the Big
Clive YouTube channel. It was under £10. This version is no longer
available but there is a version 2 for a similar price. I haven’t tried
this one.
The Nitecore Tube is a small plastic-bodied torch with fittings for a
key ring. I have not been keen to keep it on my keyring for fear of
damage from the keys, so I keep it always in my shirt pocket.
The torch is controlled through a rubber-like button on one side, and
has a micro USB port on the edge which is covered by a rubber cap.
While charging, a blue LED can be seen inside the body of the torch,
which turns off when the charging process is complete.
The torch can operate at a number of brightness levels and has a
lock mode:

Single press - turns the low light level on and off
Double press - turns on the permanent high level mode, a single
press for off
Single press and hold for more than 1 second - temporary high
mode
Press and hold when in low mode increases in brightness in
steps
Press and hold for more than 5 seconds when in high mode will lock
the torch against accidental button presses. The light blinks to show
it’s locked. Press and hold to return to normal.

Usage
I don’t use this torch a huge amount. The fact that it’s always in my
pocket means I have a source of quite bright light when I need one. The
lower level light is useful for moving around in the dark or in a gloomy
place. The brighter level I tend to use to read labels on jars, bottles
and other containers. For some reason, these labels are often designed
with minimal contrast (like a dull orange lettering on a purple
background) which my eyes just can’t cope with. The Nitecore is my
saviour with this sort of stuff!
I don’t charge it very often, but it is easy to do it with a phone
charger - I have several micro USB cables around, so it’s no
problem.
Conclusion
This is a great little device. I have other torches for when I need a
stronger, more broadly illuminating light source. I wouldn’t be carrying
any of these around with me though. The Nitecore is small and compact
enough that I can keep it on me all the time.
If I lost this one, or it died, I’m pretty sure I’d get another!
Links:

Big Clive:

Fixing two
Nitecore Tube torches
Comparison
with a shaker torch
Teardown
Teardown of a
fake
Worst clone
yet

1LUMEN.COM
Nitecore Tube - a very detailed review.


