## hpr4029 :: The product.

 The product.
Secret hat time with Sgoti.

Source: What is a "product":?

noun; Something produced by human or mechanical effort or by a
natural process, as.
noun; An item that is made or refined and marketed.

Supporting Source: The
Product model:

... In addition, a specific unit of a product is often (and in some
contexts must be) identified by a serial number, which is necessary to
distinguish products with the same product definition.

Supporting Source: What is
Commodification?

Within a capitalist economic system, commodification is the
transformation of things such as goods, services, ideas, nature,
personal information, people or animals into objects of trade or
commodities. A commodity at its most basic, according to Arjun
Appadurai, is "anything intended for exchange," or any object of
economic value.
Commodification is often criticized on the grounds that some things
ought not to be treated as commodities-for example, water, education,
data, information, knowledge, human life, and animal life.

Supporting Source: What is Attention
economy?

Attention economics is an approach to the management of information
that treats human attention as a scarce commodity and applies economic
theory to solve various information management problems. According to
Matthew Crawford, "Attention is a resource-a person has only so much of
it." Thomas H. Davenport and John C. Beck add to that definition:
Attention is focused mental engagement on a particular item of
information. Items come into our awareness, we attend to a particular
item, and then we decide whether to act.

Supporting Source: What is
Surveillance capitalism?

Surveillance capitalism is a concept in political economics which
denotes the widespread collection and commodification of personal data
by corporations. This phenomenon is distinct from government
surveillance, though the two can reinforce each other. The concept of
surveillance capitalism, as described by Shoshana Zuboff, is driven by a
profit-making incentive, and arose as advertising companies, led by
Google's AdWords, saw the possibilities of using personal data to target
consumers more precisely.

Source: AirTags
are being used to track people and cars...
Source: Exposure
Notifications: Help slow the spread of COVID-19...
Source: FTC:
Ring employees spied on users; cameras were unsecure...
Source: FDA
Takes Additional Action in Fight Against COVID-19 By Issuing Emergency
Use Authorization...

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
