## hpr0898 :: 2011-2012 Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Part 8/8 (The After Show)

 
This is episode eight of a eight part Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve event and you can expect more of them all week long.

Thanks to:

PipeManMusic of the Open Source Musician's Podcast for the Murmur server, and audio streaming
Tracy Holtz for stream mirror
Dann Washko of The Linux Link Tech Show for stream mirror
cobra2 for stream mirror
John Neusteter for stream mirror
KevinW for creating the Mumble How-To, and for manning the testing room during most of the show.
Ken Fallon for being Ken Fallon
The Hacker Public Radio Community for coming together and pulling this off, and for making it so much fun for everone. 


I was so wrapped up in the actual show, that it didn't occur to me to take notes and write down the names of all the people who helped us out. The few I listed above are all that I can remember 24 hours later. If you helped out in any way, and would like to be mentioned in the show notes of the remaining parts of this show (there will be a few of them) please email hpr (at) hackerpublicradio (dot) org with your name and I'll be glad to thank you publicly and properly.
-pokey


Howdy folks, this is FiftyOneFifty.  
What you are about to hear is the result of me starting a mixdown recording in Mumble when Pokey said he was about ready to stop recording and go to bed.  While it's all pretty tame, it's not entirely safe for work.  I started recording sometime after midnight Central Time and the original file shows we talked for another two hours and fifteen minutes (deleting the pauses brings it down to about an hour and a half).  At the end it's just me and Cobra2, proving that as in real life, I never know when it's time to gracefully leave a party :)  
Among the other voices you will hear are Pokey, Delwin, JNeuster, Deltaray, DoorToDoorGeek, and I thought it was especially cool when the world wrapped around and Ken Fallon came back in after having gone to bed the night before. I didn't have the forethought to make note of all the handles active in the room, and the festivities of the evening did not enhance my recall, so I apologize to those I have overlooked.  With the help of the community, I hope to get you proberly credited in the show notes, even if it is after the fact.  


I regret I wasn't able to participate or listen too in the entire thirteen hour scheduled recording, since I am speaking to the future I am sure I will be enjoying those missed hours even as you hear this.  I want to add my voice in gratitude and congratulations to those who organized and participated in making this event a success.


FiftyOneFifty
