## hpr0741 :: HPR Community News for May 2011

 Mumble Server

GeneralSettings 
Server Name: This is your choice 
Address: ch1.teamspeak.cc 
Port: 64747 
Username: This is your choice 
https://wiki.linuxbasix.com/tiki-index.php?page=Linux+Basix+Mumble

New hosts

Welcome to our new hosts: Slurry, 
Dismal Science & Sunzofman1, 
Brotherred, 
ArigornStrider, 
Joel, and
Josh Knapp.

Show Review

716 :: HPR Admins :: Behind the Scenes at HPR. A community update for the month 2011-04
717 :: Slurry :: My Switch from Windows to Linux
718 :: Brotherred :: How I got into Linux
719 :: Skirlet :: The Language Frontier Episode 4
720 :: klaatu :: CLI Magic
721 :: lostnbronx :: THEATER OF THE IMAGINATION -- PART 03
722 :: Claudio Miranda :: How I Upgraded My PC - Motherboard
723 :: klaatu :: How to be a safe computerist
724 :: Robin Catling :: Full Circle Podcast: Ubuntu Manual Project
725 :: pokey :: NELF_Review
726 :: MrGadgets :: Journey to Linux
727 :: klaatu :: HOWTO root and mod an Andr0id phone.
728 :: Dismal Science & Sunzofman1 :: Sex, Race and Open Source
729 :: Robin Catling :: Syndicated Thursday: FSP Sam smith, Opentech Conference 2011
730 :: code.cruncher :: LFNW: Some Facts and 2 Interviews
731 :: klaatu :: Klaatu the ubiquity and potential danger of the rm command
732 :: sikilpaake & badbit :: sikilpaake and badbit - spics on tech - episode 02
733 :: marcoz :: Linux Packaging Systems (too many)
734 :: Skirlet :: The Language Frontier Episode 4.5
735 :: Ken Fallon :: Interview with Dave Yates about SELF 2011
736 :: JWP :: Stop the Ubuntu 11.04 whining
737 :: ArigornStrider :: My Start in Computing and Linux
738 :: Joel :: Short History of Ham Radio and How I got Involved
739 :: Knightwise :: The Knightcast KC0053 : Wirelessly syncing content to your Ipad and Ipod.
740 :: Josh Knapp :: DDoS : What is it and how to protect yourself

Apologies To

Droops for not been there
stankdawg not dwag


Month in Review 

This was a busy and bumpy month as I recall it ... Ken went on holidays and the server felt abandoned and went on strike and then it pretended that there is no more space in the queue and once there was more space we almost ran out of shows and we are still looking for people to do HPR-PR at SELF, for which they will get 2 fantastic HPR T-Shirts. Ken? did you also move the server this month?

HPR Outro

Klaatu proposal to mention binrev in the outro.

Hacker Public Radio is brought to you by the BinRev Radio, 
the Infonomicon Computer Club and our Sponsor ${SPONSOR}.
${SPONSOR} is ${Marketing speak}
HPR is a Community podcast network that releases shows every 
weekday Monday through Friday.
All the shows are made by the community  fellow listeners 
like you!.
For more information on how you can contribute a show please 
go to hackerpublicradio dot org and click on the contribute 
button
There is no restrictions on how long the show can be, nor 
on the topic you can cover as long as they are of interest 
to hackers.

Updated the Syndication page to include OGG, SPX and Comments Feeds.
People had problems getting on the Mailing list
Ira put a drupal website together imahuph.net/hpradmin1
Code Cruncher is working on automation

Show prep script
upload form
security issues?

The books for the business card competition have been sent or have they ?
Added a md5 script to the site.
lostnbronx ran a spell check on the "Contribute" page
We ran out of shows - you replied.
Curbuntu is going to a lug meeting and wanted a history of HPR. We want droops on for an interview.
Ken is going to OggCamp11 - ordered business cards.
Fifty OneFifty found the Ultimate interview device
Cobra 2 

create a torrent tracker for podcast/oggcast/videocast
Advanced Android hacking series
HPR Guidelines for fests.
Wiki

Trend micro unblocked us
Zibby Keaton says that James Turnbull published his latest book "Pro Puppet" through Apress Media 

RFC Changing show to CC-BY-SA

Hi All,

This is an official request for a change of license that *NEW* shows
are uploaded as.

The proposal is to change from:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/

To https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/

The RFC will be open for a month and the results will be announced
here and on July's HPR Community News. If approved all shows after
that time will be by default CC-BY-SA unless indicated in the show
notes. Further, I would then contact everyone that has hosted so far
asking if we can relisence their show(s) as CC-BY-SA.

This is entirely up to the community so please use the mail list you
voice your opinion. Even a one liner is fine.

Ken.
