## hpr1743 :: Scale 13x Part 1 of 6

 Introduction



Lord Drachenblut introduces himself


Website: https://www.gofundme.com/gysc0o


Greetings everyone. I'm Matthew ”Lord Drachenblut" Williams. I'm currently working on gathering the fund to attend the Southern California Linux Expo aka SCALE. As many of you already know I have spent the last year struggling against esophageal cancer. I am nearing a point which I can start traveling and attending conferences again. My goal is to raise the funds so that in February of 2015 I can attend Scale. I am also working on a talk that I hope to give at SCALE. My sincerest thanks to the community that has been there for me during my recovery and to those that will help me in this endeavor. Should I raise more funds than needed to attend SCALE my goal will be to submit my talk to other conferences and to give my talk at those as well.

Docker



Listen to the interview with Jérôme Petazzoni.



Website: https://www.docker.com/
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=18390427
Twitter: https://twitter.com/jpetazzo


Docker is an open platform for developers and sysadmins to build, ship, and run distributed applications. Consisting of Docker Engine, a portable, lightweight runtime and packaging tool, and Docker Hub, a cloud service for sharing applications and automating workflows, Docker enables apps to be quickly assembled from components and eliminates the friction between development, QA, and production environments. As a result, IT can ship faster and run the same app, unchanged, on laptops, data center VMs, and any cloud.

Fedora Activity Day

The Fedora Activity Day (FAD) is a regional event (either one-day or a multi-day) that allows Fedora contributors to gather together in order to work on specific tasks related to the Fedora Project.

Fedora interview with Matthew Miller






Website: https://getfedora.org/en/


The Fedora Project is a partnership of free software community members from around the globe.  The Fedora Project builds open source software communities and produces a Linux distribution called "Fedora." The Fedora Project's mission is to lead the advancement of free and open source software and content as a collaborative community. 

