## hpr1627 :: 5150 Shades of Beer: 0001 He'Brew Hops Selection from Smaltz Brewing Company

 
Smaltz Brewing Company -  He'Brew (The Chosen Beer) Hops Collection


David's Slingshot - Pours golden, like an American lager, large head that subsides, rye aroma. Blend of multi-grain malts,  an emphasis on hops w/o being excessively hoppy.  Citrus taste from the hops. Malts: Specialist 2-row, Carmel Pils, Rye Ale, Crystal Rye, Vienna, Wheat, Flaked Oats Hops: Cascade, SAAZ, Summit, Citra, Crystal


Genesis  Dry, so dry you could be excused for wanting a glass of water to go with your beer. Bready, not biscuity, like a fresh sourdough loaf, almost makes you want to spread butter over your beer.  Just enough hops to be interesting rather than annoying.  Just a little sweet on the back end, so subtle you'll likely miss it on the first sip.  Watery mouth feel. 5.5% ACL. Malts: Specialty 2-row, Munich, Core Munich 40, Wheat, Dark Crystal  Hops: Warrior, Centennial, Cascade, Simcoe


Bittersweet Lenny's R.I.P.A. Double Rye (an ode to comedian Lenny Bruce).   Pours very dark amber, small head.   Aroma of sweet rye bread.  Sweet honey taste w/o being cloying, washed away by the hops.  Strong rye flavor, much more than Slingshot.  Malts: 2-row, Rye Ale Malt, Torrified Rye, Crystal Rye 75, Crystal Malt 80, Wheat, Kiln Amber, Core Munich 60  Hops: Warrior, Cascade, Simcoe, Saaz, Crystal, Chinook, Amarillo, Centennial


Hop Manna IPA  Pours medium amber with a good head.  Little distinct aroma.  For the hops enthusiast who doesn't want other flavors getting in the way, but still not so hoppy that the hops get in the way of the hops.  Hoppy enough  to satisfy most hops heads without making your tongue feel like it is under assault from the Hop High Command.  Malt: Specialty 2-row, Wheat, Munich, Vienna, Core Munich 60  HOPS: Warior, Cascade, Citra, Amarillo, Crystal, Centennial  Dry Hop:  Centennial, Cascade, Citra
Even though hoppy beers aren't my preference, Smaltz/He'Brew were 4 out of 4 winners.  If you see this brand, grab it with both hands.  Even if I hated the beer, I'd be a fan because each bottle lists the malts and hops,  giving the home brewer a shot at replicating the brew and the expert consumer a hint of what the beer is going to taste like before purchasing.
