## hpr3795 :: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 1

 Episode #1
Welcome to the 11th Annual Hacker Public Radio show. It is December
the 31st 2022 and the time is 10 hundred hours UTC. We start the show by
sending Greetings to Christmas Island/Kiribati and Samoa Kiritimati,
Apia. Chatting with Honkey, Mordancy, Joe, Ken, and others
Discussed: pi hole, podman, RPIs, Pfsense, and netminers new micro
pc
Introduction by Ken
and Honkey.

History:
The New Years Celebrations.

Civilizations around the world have been celebrating the start of
each new year for at least four millennia. Today, most New Year’s
festivities begin on December 31 (New Year’s Eve), the last day of the
Gregorian calendar, and continue into the early hours of January 1 (New
Year’s Day).

HPR: So
you want to do a podcast?

Wikihow:
How to make a good podcast.

Death Wish Coffee

We lead with an alternative point of view, providing bold, smooth
cups of coffee to our people. We find fresh ways to enjoy coffee, and we
foster community along the way. Disrupting the status quo interests us,
so we create edgy, sarcastic content. We live to rebel against blah
beans—and a boring, lackluster life.

Thailand Elephant
Sanctuary
VLC
commandline: List of commands and arguments.

VLC
commandline: Documentation.
VLC
commandline: Audio streaming from the commandline.
pavucontrol:
PulseAudio Volume Control.

Hearse
Club

youtube:
MotorWeek Over the Edge: Hearse Convention.

xiph: The Ogg container format.

Ogg is a multimedia container format, and the native file and stream
format for the Xiph.org multimedia codecs. As with all Xiph.org
technology is it an open format free for anyone to use.
Library
of Congress: .ogg file format.

Wikipedia: .mp3 file
format.
xiph: .flac file
format.

FLAC stands for Free Lossless Audio Codec, an audio format similar
to MP3, but lossless, meaning that audio is compressed in FLAC without
any loss in quality. This is similar to how Zip works, except with FLAC
you will get much better compression because it is designed specifically
for audio, and you can play back compressed FLAC files in your favorite
player (or your car or home stereo, see supported devices) just like you
would an MP3 file.
Wikipedia: .flac
file format.

elephantguide:
How Much Can An Elephant Lift?
Royal
Thai Embassy: Thailand’s wild tiger population shows impressive
growth.

bangkokpost:
Thailand has highest number of wild tigers in Southeast Asia.

mumble: Mumble is a free,
open source, low latency, high quality voice chat application.
atpinc:
What is M.2? Keys and Sockets Explained.
armbian: Linux for ARM
development boards.
pine64:
ROCK64 is a credit card sized Single Board Computer.
docker:
realies/nicotine.
kubuntu:

Kubuntu is a free, complete, and open-source alternative to
Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X which contains everything you need to
work, play, or share. Check out the Feature Tour if you would like to
learn more!

podman:

Podman is a daemonless container engine for developing, managing,
and running OCI Containers on your Linux System.

docker:

A
container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and
all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from
one computing environment to another. A Docker container image is a
lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes
everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools,
system libraries and settings.
Containers
and VMs Together?

cockpit: Cockpit is a
web-based graphical interface for servers, intended for everyone.

manage
virtual machines in Cockpit.

etherpad: big boy show
notes.
redhat:
Transitioning from Docker to Podman.
lugcast: We are an open
Podcast/LUG that meets every first and third Friday of every month using
mumble.
[logitech:](https://www.logitech
G435 Ultra-light Wireless Bluetooth Gaming Headset.
fit
philosophy: Junk volume.

"Junk volume" refers to exercise that doesn't improve strength or
build muscle, wasting your time and energy.
Leg day
workout

jitsi: Jitsi Free &
Open Source Video Conferencing Projects.
mintCast The podcast by the
Linux Mint community for all users of Linux.
The Linux link tech show The
Linux Link Tech Show is one of the longest running Linux podcasts in the
world.
PETG 3D
Printing Filament.
MIM-104
Patriot

military-today
The Patriot is a long-range air defense missile system.

samsclub:
rancher:

suse rancher:

raspberrypi single board
computers.
pfsense: pfSense is a
firewall/router computer software distribution based on FreeBSD.
snort:

Snort is the foremost Open Source Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)
in the world. Snort IPS uses a series of rules that help define
malicious network activity and uses those rules to find packets that
match against them and generates alerts for users.
Snort can be deployed inline to stop these packets, as well. Snort
has three primary uses: As a packet sniffer like tcpdump, as a packet
logger — which is useful for network traffic debugging, or it can be
used as a full-blown network intrusion prevention system. Snort can be
downloaded and configured for personal and business use alike.

pi-hole:

In addition to blocking advertisements, Pi-hole has an informative
Web interface that shows stats on all the domains being queried on your
network.

nlnetlabs:
Unbound Unbound is a validating, recursive, caching DNS resolver. It
is designed to be fast and lean and incorporates modern features based
on open standards.
DHCP
server
dietpi: DietPi is an extremely
lightweight Debian OS, highly optimised for minimal CPU and RAM resource
usage, ensuring your SBC always runs at its maximum potential.
servethehome:
Project Tiny Mini Micro, cool 1 liter pc builds.
filezilla: The
FileZilla Client supports FTP, FTP over TLS (FTPS), and SFTP.
redhat:
Configure a Network Team Using the Text User Interface,
nmtui.
howtogeek:
Manage Linux Wi-Fi Networks With Nmtui.
travelcodex:
The Southwest Airlines Meltdown.
gpd
kickstarter:
Arduboy, the game system the size of a credit card.
pine64:
Pinetab 2.
orangepi:
Orange Pi 800, Mini PC in a keyboard.
southeastlinuxfest:
The SouthEast LinuxFest is a community event for anyone who wants to
learn more about Linux and Open Source Software.
fosdem: FOSDEM is a free
event for software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate.
stallman: Richard Stallman's
Personal Site.
freedos: FreeDOS is a
complete, free, DOS-compatible operating system. While we provide some
utilities, you should be able to run any program intended for
MS-DOS.
reactos: Imagine running your
favorite Windows applications and drivers in an open-source environment
you can trust.
wikipedia:
Windows 3.0.
winehq: a compatibility layer
capable of running Windows applications on several POSIX-compliant
operating systems, such as Linux, macOS, & BSD.
codeweavers:
playonlinux:
PlayOnLinux is a piece of software which allows you to easily install
and use numerous games and apps designed to run with Microsoft®
Windows®.
protondb: Proton is a new
tool released by Valve Software that has been integrated with Steam Play
to make playing Windows games on Linux as simple as hitting the Play
button within Steam.
libreoffice: LibreOffice
is a free and powerful office suite.
linuxmint: Linux Mint is a
community-driven Linux distribution based on Ubuntu, bundled with a
variety of free and open-source applications.
xfce: Xfce or XFCE is a free and
open-source desktop environment for Linux and other Unix-like operating
systems.
crunchbang: CrunchBang was a
Debian GNU/Linux based distribution offering a great blend of speed,
style and substance.
openbox:
gnome:
mozilla:
firefox
google
chrome
AMD
autism
toastmasters
Toastmasters International is a nonprofit educational organization that
teaches public speaking and leadership skills through a worldwide
network of clubs.
openssl
Asperger
syndrome
STEM
BASIC BASIC
(Beginners' All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) is a family of
general-purpose, high-level programming languages designed for ease of
use. The original version was created by John G. Kemeny and Thomas E.
Kurtz at Dartmouth College in 1963.
IRC IRC
is short for Internet Relay Chat. It is a popular chat service still in
use today.
second life
walmart
aldi
morrisons
boots
walgreens
zulu
clock

Thanks To:
Mumble Server: Delwin
HPR Site/VPS: Joshua Knapp - AnHonestHost.com
Streams: Honkeymagoo
EtherPad: HonkeyMagoo
Shownotes by: Sgoti and hplovecraft
