## hpr3719 :: HPR News

 InfoSec; the language of
security.
What
is Typosquatting and How Do Scammers Use it?

Typosquatting, as an attack, uses modified or misspelled domain
names to trick users into visiting fraudulent websites; the heart of
this attack is domain name registration. Typosquatting is deployed by
scammers to defraud unaware users. Attackers will attempt to: mimic
login pages, redirect traffic, download malware, and extort users.
Past Known Typosquatting Attacks.

Several
Malicious Typosquatted Python Libraries Found On PyPI
Repository
Over
700 Malicious Typosquatted Libraries Found On RubyGems
Repository
Security
advisory: malicious crate rustdecimal
This
Week in Malware-Malicious Rust crate, 'colors' Typosquats

Solutions to Typosquatting.

How
to stop typosquatting attacks
What
Is a Checksum (and Why Should You Care)?
PiHole
Ubuntu font
family

DNS monitoring services.

Link to dnstwister: https://dnstwister.report/
Link to whois: https://www.whois.com/whois

Password Managers.

Link to bitwarden: https://bitwarden.com/
Link to keepassxc: https://keepassxc.org/



Two-factor and
Multifactor Authentication.

First, authentication. This is the process of verifying the
validity of something; in our case, user credentials/identity. The most
common way to authenticate is: USERNAME and PASSWORD.
This is just a single layer (single-factor authentication) and isn’t
enough to discourage attackers.
Second, 2FA (Two-factor Authentication). 2FA increases the
difficulty for attackers by providing users an additional layer of
security to accomplish authentication. Common 2FA methods are: TOTP/OTP
(the One Time Password), Authenticator
Applications (Bitwarden, KeePassXC,...), and Security Keys (Yubikey). This works similar to ATMs;
to authenticate the user must provide both knowledge (account
PIN) and a physical object (bank card).
Last, but not least, MFA (Multifactor Authentication). Similar to
2FA, MFA offers users security with the addition of biometrics
(fingerprint scan, retina scan, facial recognition, and voice
recognition). Attackers must overcome the knowledge factor, Possession
factor, Inherence/Biometric factor, Time factor, and sometimes Location
factor.
MORE helpful security information.

FIDO Alliance
Specifications.
Field
Guide to Two-Step Login.

2FA/MFA Known Attacks.

Bots
That Steal Your 2FA Codes.
hackers
are cracking two-factor authentication


