## hpr4008 :: Sextortion. Good Heavens!

 Sextortion

Source: Sextortion employs
non-physical forms of coercion to extort sexual favors from the
victim. Sextortion refers to the broad category of sexual
exploitation in which abuse of power is the means of coercion, as well
as to the category of sexual exploitation in which threatened release of
sexual images or information is the means of coercion.
Supporting Source: What
is Sextortion? An FBI special agent defines sextortion.
Supporting Source: Sextortion
can start on any site, app, messaging platform, or game where people
meet and communicate. The FBI has seen a huge increase in the number
of cases involving children and teens being threatened and coerced into
sending explicit images online; a crime called sextortion.

Supporting Source: FBI Special Agent Brian Herrick
defines sextortion...
Supporting Source: Ashley Reynolds was 14 when she was
victimized...

Supporting Source: Welcome to FBI-SOS (Safe Online Surfing)
Cyber Surf Island! Here you will learn all about cyber safety and
digital citizenship.
Source: r/Scams: This is a help forum -
bad advice will get you banned.
Supporting Source: Post:
I am being sextorted. Please help me, I feel helpless.
Supporting Source: Post:
rando threatening to leak nude picture.
Supporting Source: Post:
Hi, I am a 14 year old male, I was dumb enough to send someone nudes on
Instagram and now they threaten to ruin me by posting this
everywhere.
Similar sex related scams.

Supporting Source: Post: It’s
saying that my device got infested with a R.A.T. And they want $1600 usd
in bitcoin within 48 hours.
Supporting Source: Post:
death threat scam today after sending 3 escorts text messages to see if
they'd be open to nude modeling...

Source: r/Sextortion: Are you a
current or former victim of sextortion or online blackmail?
Supporting Source: Post:
Someone please talk to me.
Supporting Source: Post:
107 hours since the incident. I’m safe right?
Supporting Source: Post:
Just got scammed.. I'm shaking!!
Supporting Source: Post:
new victim pls help panicking so much!!
Supporting Source: Post:
Either made the biggest mistake of my life or the best
Supporting Source: Post:
after 11 months, the person that scammed me sent photos to my
family.

