## hpr0883 :: Dan Lynch interview

 
Today we give you another of the interviews from OggCamp where we interview Dan Lynch. Here's his bio from his own site https://danlynch.org/

Dan Lynch
Hello and welcome, I'm Dan. A writer, musician, developer, broadcaster and hopeless geek from Liverpool in the UK. This site is the hub of everything I do online, or at least it's supposed to be but it still needs work. I'm committed to Free & Open Source Software and Creative Commons, I write and broadcast about both, mainly through the Linux Outlaws and Rathole Radio podcasts. You may also know me as a host of FLOSS Weekly on the TWIT Network.
Rathole Radio is my music show where I play a wide selection of the best music on the net. I interview artists, tell silly stories, have live votes and even play songs myself. The music is very eclectic because I believe that all styles have good and bad within them. I want people to open their minds and not pigeon-hole everything. I only play one "style" of music, stuff I like.
Linux Outlaws is a weekly show where I discuss the latest happenings in the Open Source technology world and with my German co-host and friend Fab. It's grown beyond anything we could have imagined. We get tens of thousands of downloads per show, it's taken me to different parts of the world and allowed me to meet and share time with many of my technology heroes. I'm very lucky. Below you will see the latest content from my blog and both these podcasts. You can also use the links on the menu to find more specialised information about my music and other things.
I sing and play guitar in a band called 20lb Sounds. We recently launched our website with free music downloads and we hope to build up a community there. I'm calling it the 20lb Army, so sign up and join the fun :)
I organised a large Free Software and Free Culture event in Liverpool called OggCamp10. Strange name I know but the site explains all that. It took place on 1st and 2nd of May 2010, we were joined by many great FOSS fans and developers from around the world. Not only that but on Friday April 30th 2010 I also ran a successful Rathole Radio gig with David Rovics and Attila The Stockbroker to kick the weekend off.
I support the Open Rights Group and I'm very concerned about digital rights and political matters in the UK. I'm a proud member of both Liverpool LUG and Chester LUG and regularly attend meetings at both. Is this two timing or just a real commitment to FOSS? I'll let you decide ;)
Thanks for visiting. Feel free to hang around a while and put your feet up.
