## hpr1934 :: Experiencing the Meegopad T-02  Part two

 
Part 2 of "Experiencing the Meegopad T-02.


Many thanks to all the HPR contributers that inspire such great stories.


Glossary of slang terms to be updated upon show release, along with the list of sound effects contributers.


Special thanks to the following individuals from freesound.org for their sound effects used throughout this episode.

Rutgermuller 
jaredi
hybrid34
lintphishx
timbre
cameronmusic
cr4sht3st
husky70
mojomills
ultradust
conleec
ingolyrio
dapperdanial
robinhood76
unfa
kwahma-02
stephsinger22
lonemonk
reg7783

Higher quality stereo copies of this episode in .Flac, Ogg, and MP3 format can be found at the following link.
https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B6BAm4vn8c7QWnZLbnFib0JPc2M&usp=sharing

Glossary of slang terms used in this episode:

"Came unglued" = going berzerk
"Sang a little song" = provided information to law enforcement
"Still" = whiskey making apparatus 
"Scoring Barbies" = Picking up women
"G-Men" = Government employees. (Federal agents)
"Makerspace" = 3-D Printing facility
"Johnny Law" = Law Enforcement
"C-Note" = $100.00 bill
"Speakeasy" = illegal drinking establishment in prohibition era United States
"68 Chevelle" = 1968 Chevrolet 2-door automobile
"Ratting me out" = informing on someone
"Frank Nitty" = 30's era Gangster, Al Capon's right hand man (Enforcer)

Disclaimer:

All characters are fictitious renditions of HPR contributers.
Nothing about any individuals character is based on anything other than my personal convenience of using their likenesses in fictitious storytelling.
No disrespect is intended in any way.

The genre that the character A Shadowy Figure lives in is hard boiled Noir.
Noir reflects a past history that had different standards than we do now.
I do not personally hold those antiquated world views. Nor do I promote them through this work of fiction. I would like to think this artistic creation does provide an opportunity to see how far we've come as a society.

But most of all, I'd like to think that you the listener, are entertained and/or inspired by this presentation.

Thank you all for your support.

A Shadowy Figure
