## hpr1697 :: FOSDEM 2015 Friday Night and Saturday Morning 1 of 5

 FOSDEM 2015 Friday Night and Saturday Morning 1 of 5



Website: https://fosdem.org/2015/


FOSDEM is a two-day event organised by volunteers to promote the widespread use of open source software. Videos of the talks refered to in this show are made available on their website.

Software Freedom Conservancy



Website: https://sfconservancy.org


Software Freedom Conservancy is a not-for-profit organization that helps promote, improve, develop, and defend Free, Libre, and Open Source Software (FLOSS) projects. Conservancy provides a non-profit home and infrastructure for FLOSS projects. This allows FLOSS developers to focus on what they do best - writing and improving FLOSS for the general public - while Conservancy takes care of the projects' needs that do not relate directly to software development and documentation.

Free as in Freedom

Website: https://faif.us/


Free as in Freedom is a bi-weekly oggcast, hosted and presented by
Bradley M. Kuhn and Karen Sandler.
The discussion includes legal, policy, and many other issues in the Free, Libre,
and Open Source Software (FLOSS) world.  Occasionally, guests join
Bradley and Karen to discuss various topics regarding FLOSS.




Listen to the interview with Bradley M. Kuhn







Listen to the interview with Karen Sandler




GNOME



Listen to the interview with Sriram Ramkrishna







Website: https://gnome.org


GNOME 3 is an easy and elegant way to use your computer. It is designed to put you in control and bring freedom to everybody. GNOME 3 is developed by the GNOME community, a diverse, international group of contributors that is supported by an independent, non-profit foundation.

Fedora



Listen to the interview with Matthew Miller







Website: https://getfedora.org/en/


The Fedora Project is a partnership of free software community members from around the globe.  The Fedora Project builds open source software communities and produces a Linux distribution called "Fedora." The Fedora Project's mission is to lead the advancement of free and open source software and content as a collaborative community. 

OpenStack



Listen to the interview with Rich Bowen







Website: https://openstack.org


OpenStack software controls large pools of compute, storage, and networking resources throughout a datacenter, managed through a dashboard or via the OpenStack API. OpenStack works with popular enterprise and open source technologies making it ideal for heterogeneous infrastructure.

CentOS



Listen to the interview with Karanbir Singh







Website: https://www.centos.org


The CentOS Linux distribution is a stable, predictable, manageable and reproduceable platform derived from the sources of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL). We are now looking to expand on that by creating the resources needed by other communities to come together and be able to build on the CentOS Linux platform. And today we start the process by delivering a clear governance model, increased transparency and access. In the coming weeks we aim to publish our own roadmap that includes variants of the core CentOS Linux.

Music

Track name : Free Software Song
Performer : Fenster
Recorded date : 2002
Copyright : Copyright (C) 2002, 
Fenster LLC. Verbatim copying of this entire recording is permitted in any medium, 
provided this notice is preserved. 
Performers: 
Paul Robinson (vocals), 
Roman Kravec (guitar), 
Ed D'Angelo (bass), 
Dave Newman (drums), 
Brian Yarbrough (trumpet), 
Tony Moore (trumpet). 
Free software info at www.gnu.org speeches at audio-video.gnu.org/audio

