## hpr1701 :: FOSDEM 2015 Part 4 of 5

 


Website: https://fosdem.org/2015/


FOSDEM is a two-day event organised by volunteers to promote the widespread use of open source software. Videos of the talks refered to in this show are made available on their website.

Agora Voting



Listen to the interview with Eduardo Robles







Website: https://agoravoting.org/


Agora Voting is an open source voting software that allows any organization to carry out secure, flexible, transparent and cost-effective electoral processes.

DIYBookScanner



Listen to the interview with Johannes Baiter







Website: https://github.com/DIYBookScanner/spreads


spreads is a software suite for the digitization of printed material. Its main focus is to integrate existing solutions for individual parts of the scanning workflow into a cohesive package that is intuitive to use and easy to extend. At its core, it handles the communication with the imaging devices, the post-processing of the captured material and its assembly into output formats like PDF or ePub. On top of this base layer, we have built a variety of interfaces that should fit into most use cases: A full-fledged and mobile-friendly web interface that can be served from even the most low-powered devices (like a Raspberry Pi), a graphical wizard for classical desktop users and a bare-bones command-line interface for purists.

OpenEmbedded

Listen to the interview with Ulf Samuelsson







Website: https://www.openembedded.org


Welcome to OpenEmbedded, the build framework for embedded Linux. OpenEmbedded offers a best-in-class cross-compile environment. It allows developers to create a complete Linux Distribution for embedded systems. 

UBA Royal Belgian Amateur Radio Union/Deutscher Amateur-Radio-Club e. V.

Listen to the interview with Kristoff Bonne







Website: https://www.uba.be/


The Royal Union of Belgian Radio Amateurs (UBA) (in Dutch, Koninklijke Unie van de Belgische Zendamateurs, in French Union Royale Belge des Amateurs-Emetteurs, in German Königliche Union der Belgischen Funkamateure) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Belgium. UBA is the national member society representing Belgium in the International Amateur Radio Union.




Website: https://www.darc.de/


The Deutsche Amateur-Radio-Club e.V. (DARC) (in English, German Amateur Radio Club) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Germany. As of 1 January 2008, the organization had 44,246 members, approximately 60% of all licensed amateur radio operators in Germany. Key membership benefits of the organization include QSL bureau services, a monthly membership magazine called CQ DL, and the promotion and sponsorship of radio contests. DARC promotes amateur radio by organizing classes and technical support to help enthusiasts earn their amateur radio license. The DARC also represents the interests of German amateur radio operators and shortwave listeners before German and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. DARC is the national member society representing Germany in the International Amateur Radio Union.

kodi formerly XBMC



Listen to the interview with Ejal de Klerk







Website: https://kodi.tv/


Kodi (formerly known as XBMC) is an award-winning free and open source (GPL) software media player and entertainment hub that can be installed on Linux, OSX, Windows, iOS, and Android, featuring a 10-foot user interface for use with televisions and remote controls. It allows users to play and view most videos, music, podcasts, and other digital media files from local and network storage media and the internet.

Music

Track name : Free Software Song
Performer : Fenster
Recorded date : 2002
Copyright : Copyright (C) 2002, 
Fenster LLC. Verbatim copying of this entire recording is permitted in any medium, 
provided this notice is preserved. 
Performers: 
Paul Robinson (vocals), 
Roman Kravec (guitar), 
Ed D'Angelo (bass), 
Dave Newman (drums), 
Brian Yarbrough (trumpet), 
Tony Moore (trumpet). 
Free software info at www.gnu.org speeches at audio-video.gnu.org/audio

