## hpr2926 :: Full Circle Magazine

 Hi Everyone in HPR land this is Tony Hughes coming to you from Studio B at Woodbrooke Quaker Study Centre in Birmingham in the UK, where I am currently staying for a week of voluntary work.
The reason for this short episode is to talk about a community magazine that I have been reading since I started to use Ubuntu Linux back in 2007. Full Circle magazine actually produced a pilot issue in April of 2007 and issue one was issued in June 2007. All issues are published as a free pdf download and all the content is under a Creative Commons licence.
Free Circle Magazine initially started as an Ubuntu (and official spins of Ubuntu) magazine but over the years while still being officially about Ubuntu or Linux Distributions based on Ubuntu, many of the articles are applicable to those across the Linux community.
Over the years, as well as printing one off articles about individuals’ journey to using Linux, reviews and letters from readers, there have been regular series on topics such as Inkscape, Python programming, Open/LibreOffice, Virtualisation and much more.
Sadly after over 12 years of producing a regular monthly magazine for the Linux community some of the regular article series are coming to an end and due to ill health at least one regular writer is not able to contribute at the moment, and this is leaving the magazine short of content and in danger of possibly coming to an end.
As a podcast community that is used to the idea of crowd sourced content, many of whom are also Linux users, could I ask that some of you that have read Full Circle, but never contributed, consider sending in some content. It could be an article on how you started using Linux, about some Linux software that you think the readers may be interested in learning more about, or just a letter to Ronnie to say thanks for all his efforts putting out a magazine every month for the last 12+ years.
Like many things we often don’t miss them until they are gone, and I would hate to think that Full Circle Magazine is one of those things that I will miss in the future. I have put my money where my mouth is and in coming issues you may see me in print, talking about podcasting. You could even use any writing you do as the base for a HPR show, and achieve two goals in one go.
All the best for now.
Links

https://www.woodbrooke.org.uk/
https://fullcirclemagazine.org/
https://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-149/

