## hpr3814 :: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 3

 Episode #3

wikipedia:
The Drunkard's Walk: How Randomness Rules Our Lives.
wikipedia:
Lactose intolerance is a common condition caused by a decreased ability
to digest lactose, a sugar found in dairy products.
uncyclopedia:
A tree hugging hippy is a hippy who hugs trees often found in Bezerkley,
California. Many people think that there is much more to say about tree
hugging hippies than just the fact that they hug trees, but reality is,
that there is not really very much more to say about tree hugging
hippies than that they hug trees.
merriam-webster:
A vegetarian is a person who does not eat meat : someone whose diet
consists wholly of vegetables, fruits, grains, nuts, and sometimes eggs
or dairy products.
merriam-webster:
A vegan is a strict vegetarian who consumes no food (such as meat, eggs,
or dairy products) that comes from animals.
wikipedia:
Liberalism is a political and moral philosophy based on the rights of
the individual, liberty, consent of the governed, political equality and
equality before the law. Liberals espouse various views depending on
their understanding of these principles.
wikipedia:
Conservatism is a cultural, social, and political philosophy that seeks
to promote and to preserve traditional institutions, practices, and
values. The central tenets of conservatism may vary in relation to the
culture and civilization in which it appears.
ssa: Social Security is
committed to helping maintain the basic well-being and protection of the
people we serve. We pay benefits to about 64 million people including
retirees, children, widows, and widowers. From birth, to marriage, and
into retirement, we are there to provide support throughout life's
journey.
wikipedia:
In physiology, dehydration is a lack of total body water, with an
accompanying disruption of metabolic processes. It occurs when free
water loss exceeds free water intake, usually due to exercise, disease,
or high environmental temperature. Mild dehydration can also be caused
by immersion diuresis, which may increase risk of decompression sickness
in divers.
wikipedia:
An emergency medical technician (EMT), also known as an ambulance
technician, is a health professional that provides emergency medical
services. EMTs are most commonly found working in ambulances. In
English-speaking countries, paramedics are a separate profession that
has additional educational requirements, qualifications, and scope of
practice.
wikipedia:
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental and behavioral
disorder that can develop because of exposure to a traumatic event, such
as sexual assault, warfare, traffic collisions, child abuse, domestic
violence, or other threats on a person's life.
anxiety:
Anxiety is the mind and body's reaction to stressful, dangerous, or
unfamiliar situations. It's the sense of uneasiness, distress, or dread
you feel before a significant event.
alcoholism:
Alcoholism is a condition that develops over time as someone continues
to abuse alcohol. The result of alcoholism is the inability to control
the urge to drink alcohol.
neomutt:
NeoMutt is a text-based application which interacts with users through
different menus which are mostly line-/entry-based or page-based.
gnu:
emacs is an extensible, customizable, free/libre text
editor — and more.
wikipedia: Usenet
is a worldwide distributed discussion system available on computers. It
was developed from the general-purpose Unix-to-Unix Copy (UUCP) dial-up
network architecture.
wikipedia:
Google+ (pronounced and sometimes written as Google Plus; sometimes
called G+) was a social network owned and operated by Google. The
network was launched on June 28, 2011, in an attempt to challenge other
social networks, linking other Google products like Google Drive,
Blogger and YouTube.
techandcoffee: A virtual
water cooler for the world of tech.
wikipedia:
Yahoo! Messenger (sometimes abbreviated Y!M) was an
advertisement-supported instant messaging client and associated protocol
provided by Yahoo!. Yahoo! Messenger was provided free of charge and
could be downloaded and used with a generic "Yahoo ID" which also
allowed access to other Yahoo! services, such as Yahoo! Mail.
discord: A place that makes it
easy to talk every day and hang out more often.
telegram: Telegram is a
cloud-based mobile and desktop messaging app with a focus on security
and speed.
IRC IRC
is short for Internet Relay Chat. It is a popular chat service still in
use today.
mintCast The podcast by the
Linux Mint community for all users of Linux.
distrohoppersdigest:
We are three Blokes who love Linux and trying out new stuff.
fullcirclemagazine:
linuxlads:
samsclub: Sam’s Club is a
membership warehouse club, a limited-item business model that offers our
members quality products.
walmart: Walmart Inc. is an
American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of
hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores from the
United States, headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas.
target: Target Corporation is
an American big box department store chain headquartered in Minneapolis,
Minnesota.
mcdonalds:
McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches sold by the international
fast food restaurant chain McDonald's.
joinmastodon: Social
networking that's not for sale.
ciachef: You love food. And
you’re pretty sure you want to make it your life. If this sounds like
you, then The Culinary Institute of America is the only place you need
to be.
fda:
A food allergy is an abnormal immune response to food. The symptoms of
the allergic reaction may range from mild to severe.
healthline:
Spend less time in the kitchen: Choose which meals to cook first based
on cook times.
wikipedia:
Beekeeping is the maintenance of bee colonies, commonly in man-made
beehives.
veganfriendly:
The Ethics of Veganism: Ethical Reasons to Go Vegan.
worldwildlife:
Beef production has several distinct and significant impacts on the
environment.
xess:
How to install, test, and use your new XS40 or XSP Board.

ebay: SBC ISA
386 SX40 single computer cpu card OMNI-300 4MB.

linuxmint: Linux Mint is a
community-driven Linux distribution based on Ubuntu, bundled with a
variety of free and open-source applications.
linuxliteos: Linux Lite
is a Linux distribution based on Debian and Ubuntu created by a team of
programmers led by Jerry Bezencon.
sparkylinux: SparkyLinux is a
desktop-oriented operating system based on the Debian operating
system.
ubuntu: Ubuntu is a Linux
distribution based on Debian and composed mostly of free and open-source
software.
snapcraft: Snaps are
containerised software packages that are simple to create and install.
They auto-update and are safe to run.
slackware: Slackware is a
Linux distribution created by Patrick Volkerding in 1993.
archlinux: Arch Linux is an
independently developed, x86-64 general-purpose Linux distribution that
strives to provide the latest stable versions of most software by
following a rolling-release model.
gnu: GNU GRUB is a
Multiboot boot loader. It was derived from GRUB, the GRand Unified
Bootloader, which was originally designed and implemented by Erich
Stefan Boleyn.
wikipedia:
Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing is an application software program designed
to teach touch typing.
wikipedia:
Microsoft Windows is a computer operating system developed by
Microsoft.
wikipedia:
List of Microsoft 365 applications and services.
freedos: FreeDOS is a
complete, free, DOS-compatible operating system. While we provide some
utilities, you should be able to run any program intended for
MS-DOS.
blackberry:
BlackBerry was a brand of smartphones and
other related mobile services and devices.
wikipedia: OS/2
(Operating System/2) is a series of computer operating systems,
initially created by Microsoft and IBM under the leadership of IBM
software designer Ed Iacobucci.
pcom: The PCOM
network account is used to logon to on-campus computers and to
authenticate off-campus users.
wikipedia: The
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), nicknamed Big Blue,
is an American multinational technology corporation headquartered in
Armonk, New York, with operations in over 175 countries. It specializes
in computer hardware, middleware and software and provides hosting and
consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to
nanotechnology.
wikipedia: The
IBM RT PC (RISC Technology Personal Computer) is a family of workstation
computers from IBM introduced in 1986. These were the first commercial
computers from IBM that were based on a reduced instruction set computer
(RISC) architecture.
wikipedia: The
Personal System/2 or PS/2 is IBM's second generation of personal
computers. Released in 1987, it officially replaced the IBM PC, XT, AT,
and PC Convertible in IBM's lineup.
wikipedia:
Token Ring is a computer networking technology used to build local area
networks. It was introduced by IBM in 1984, and standardized in 1989 as
IEEE 802.5.
wikipedia:
A Network Termination Device (NTD) is a customer-side network interface
device used by the Australian National Broadband Network (NBN). Network
termination devices provide multiple bridges for customers to access the
NBN.
wikipedia:
The Internet protocol suite, commonly known as TCP/IP, is a framework
for organizing the set of communication protocols used in the Internet
and similar computer networks according to functional criteria. The
foundational protocols in the suite are the Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP), the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), and the Internet
Protocol (IP).
rtx: The Raytheon Company is a
major U.S. defense contractor and industrial corporation with core
manufacturing concentrations in weapons and military and commercial
electronics.
wikipedia:
In electronics, a wafer (also called a slice or substrate) is a thin
slice of semiconductor, such as a crystalline silicon (c-Si), used for
the fabrication of integrated circuits and, in photovoltaics, to
manufacture solar cells.
wikipedia: A
transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify or switch
electrical signals and power. The transistor is one of the basic
building blocks of modern electronics.
wikipedia: A
resistor is a passive two-terminal electrical component that implements
electrical resistance as a circuit element. In electronic circuits,
resistors are used to reduce current flow, adjust signal levels, to
divide voltages, bias active elements, and terminate transmission lines,
among other uses.
mit:
IBM's 360 and Early 370 Systems.
history:
The Great San Francisco Earthquake.
wikipedia: A
secretarial pool or typing pool is a group of secretaries working at a
company available to assist any executive without a permanently assigned
secretary. These groups have been reduced or eliminated where executives
have been assigned responsibility for writing their own letters and
other secretarial work.
debian: Debian, also known as
Debian GNU/Linux, is a Linux distribution composed of free and
open-source software, developed by the community-supported Debian
Project, which was established by Ian Murdock on August 16, 1993.
nobaraproject: The Nobara
Project, to put it simply, is a modified version of Fedora Linux with
user-friendly fixes added to it.
getfedora: Fedora Linux is a
Linux distribution developed by the Fedora Project. Fedora contains
software distributed under various free and open-source licenses and
aims to be on the leading edge of open-source technologies.
suckless: dwm is a
dynamic window manager for Xorg.
wikipedia:
The ThinkPad X series is a line of laptop computers and convertible
tablets produced by Lenovo with less power than its other counterparts.
It was initially produced by IBM until 2005.
newsgroups:
Usenet is a very popular platform, and Newsgroups are a crucial part of
It because Users to interact with each other, share and share
stuff.
wikipedia:
The Gopher protocol (/ˈɡoʊfər/) is a communication protocol designed for
distributing, searching, and retrieving documents in Internet Protocol
networks.
wikipedia:
Gemini is an application-layer internet communication protocol for
accessing remote documents, similar to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP) and Gopher.
github:
Amfora aims to be the best looking Gemini client with the most
features... all in the terminal. It does not support Gopher or other
non-Web protocols - check out Bombadillo for that.
circumlunar:
You can use the following Gemini clients to connect to this server via
the Gemini protocol and access the full range of content.
wikipedia:
Dial-up Internet access is a form of Internet access that uses the
facilities of the public switched telephone network (PSTN) to establish
a connection to an Internet service provider (ISP) by dialing a
telephone number on a conventional telephone line.
youtube:
The FCC and Federal marshals raid a pirate radio station in Knoxville
Tennessee.
fish:
newsgroup for discussion by recovering sysadmins.
thunderbird:
Thunderbird is an open source project, which means anyone can contribute
ideas, designs, code, and time helping fellow users.
wikipedia:
Eternal September or the September that never ended is Usenet slang for
a period beginning around 1993 when Internet service providers began
offering Usenet access to many new users.
wikipedia: BBM,
also known by its full name BlackBerry Messenger, was a proprietary
mobile instant messenger and videotelephony application included on
BlackBerry devices that allows messaging and voice calls between
BlackBerry OS, BlackBerry 10, iOS, Android, and Windows Mobile
users.
opensuse: openSUSE, formerly
SUSE Linux and SuSE Linux Professional, is a Linux distribution
sponsored by SUSE Linux GmbH and other companies.
bbc:
What hermits can teach us about isolation.
stwww: THE STAR
TREK NEWSGROUPS.
ebay:
2,400+ results for hp elitedesk on ebay.
wikipedia: M.2,
pronounced m dot two and formerly known as the Next Generation Form
Factor (NGFF), is a specification for internally mounted computer
expansion cards and associated connectors. M.2 replaces the mSATA
standard, which uses the PCI Express Mini Card physical card layout and
connectors.
oggcamp: OggCamp is an
unconference celebrating Free Culture, Free and Open Source Software,
hardware hacking, digital rights, and all manner of collaborative
cultural activities and is committed to creating a conference that is as
inclusive as possible.
mass:
It is illegal for private citizens to use, possess, or sell fireworks in
Massachusetts, or to purchase them legally elsewhere and then transport
them into the state. The law prohibits any article designed to produce a
visible or audible effect.
wikipedia:
The COVID-19 pandemic, also known as the coronavirus pandemic, is an
ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The novel
virus was first identified in an outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan
in December 2019.
cdc:
Vaccination often already covered under employee health plans Improves
morale Benefits to Employees: Reduces absences due to sickness and
doctor visits Improves health Convenience Improves morale Benefits will
vary based on investment by employers in championing vaccination and
number of employees vaccinated.
wikipedia:
The McDonnell F-101 Voodoo is a supersonic jet fighter which served the
United States Air Force (USAF) and the Royal Canadian Air Force
(RCAF).
wikipedia:
The Raytheon MIM-23 HAWK ("Homing all the way killer") is an American
medium-range surface-to-air missile.
wikipedia: C-4
or Composition C-4 is a common variety of the plastic explosive family
known as Composition C, which uses RDX as its explosive agent.
wikipedia:
The Boeing C-97 Stratofreighter was a long-range heavy military cargo
aircraft developed from the B-29 and B-50 bombers.
wikipedia:
The Boeing B-29 Superfortress is an American four-engined
propeller-driven heavy bomber, designed by Boeing and flown primarily by
the United States during World War II and the Korean War.
nasa:
What is a relay satellite?
truckstop:
Long-Haul Trucking: Everything You Need to Know.
bodhilinux: Bodhi Linux, a
lightweight distribution featuring the fast & fully customizable
Moksha Desktop. The 64-bit is built on top of Ubuntu (20.04).
stormos: Storm OS is a
Linux distribution based on Arch, and LFS (Linux from Scratch)!
stormdos: a
multitasking 32-bit operating system written in Free Pascal (FPK, http://www.freepascal.org ) and
distributed under GNU GPL v2 license and SDK files under GNU Lesser GPL
v2.1.
wikipedia:
List of Linux distributions.
sourceforge:
Titan Linux is an all new distro built on the Debian Stable branch. It's
a fully functional yet minimal KDE Plasma desktop experience focusing on
usability and performance with a wide range of hardware support out of
the box.
wikipedia:
Dyslexia, also known until the 1960s as word blindness, is a disorder
characterized by reading below the expected level for one's age.
Different people are affected to different degrees. Problems may include
difficulties in spelling words, reading quickly, writing words,
"sounding out" words in the head, pronouncing words when reading aloud
and understanding what one reads.
wikipedia: The
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition
(DSM-5), is the 2013 update to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders, the taxonomic and diagnostic tool published by the
American Psychiatric Association (APA). In the United States, the DSM
serves as the principal authority for psychiatric diagnoses.
wikipedia:
In 1994, DSM-IV was published, listing 410 disorders in 886 pages. The
task force was chaired by Allen Frances and was overseen by a steering
committee of twenty-seven people, including four psychologists.
wikipedia: The
thyroid, or thyroid gland, is an endocrine gland in vertebrates. In
humans it is in the neck and consists of two connected lobes.
learning:
Why use personality assessment tests?
wikipedia:
Major depressive disorder (MDD), also known as clinical depression, is a
mental disorder characterized by at least two weeks of pervasive low
mood, low self-esteem, and loss of interest or pleasure in normally
enjoyable activities.
drugs:
Testosterone Injection.
healthline:
Low testosterone in males is common as they get older. Symptoms can be
subtle, but there is treatment available if the symptoms affect your
lifestyle.
wikipedia:
Endocrinology (from endocrine + -ology) is a branch of biology and
medicine dealing with the endocrine system, its diseases, and its
specific secretions known as hormones. It is also concerned with the
integration of developmental events proliferation, growth, and
differentiation, and the psychological or behavioral activities of
metabolism, growth and development, tissue function, sleep, digestion,
respiration, excretion, mood, stress, lactation, movement, reproduction,
and sensory perception caused by hormones.
wikipedia:
Nephrology (from Greek nephros "kidney", combined with the suffix -logy,
"the study of") is a specialty of adult internal medicine and pediatric
medicine that concerns the study of the kidneys, specifically normal
kidney function (renal physiology) and kidney disease (renal
pathophysiology), the preservation of kidney health, and the treatment
of kidney disease, from diet and medication to renal replacement therapy
(dialysis and kidney transplantation).
allrecipes:
Salmon Tacos.

Thanks To:
Mumble Server: Delwin
HPR Site/VPS: Joshua Knapp - AnHonestHost.com
Streams: Honkeymagoo
EtherPad: HonkeyMagoo
Shownotes by: Sgoti and hplovecraft
