## hpr3842 :: What’s in my bag series

 Introduction
A time stamp is added for each item I mention. The time stamp given
does not include the intro added by HPR so you’ll need to add a few more
seconds to get to the the correct spot in the recording.
[1:20] - I mention that if you are struggling to think of a topic for
an HPR show then the HPR site contains a list of requested topics which
you can choose from. https://hackerpublicradio.org/requested_topics.php
[1:55] - Picture 01 show the “Wenger” rucksack (Backpack) I take to
work. It was purchased many years ago and is probably no longer
available.
Picture 1

First front zip section
[3:20] - I mention that I suffered for many years with Hay fever and
have had great success with Mixed Pollen 30C tablets which I bought on
Amazon. Unknown to me at the time these were Homeopathic with miniscule
concentration. Despite this they seems to have cured my Hay fever. Refer
to the links below.
Wikipedia
article on Homeopathic dilutions
Amazon
link to Weleda Mixed Pollen 30C Tablets
[4:20] - Link to some unremarkable Iphone headphones I use which I
bought from Amazon. Strangely they seem to constantly fall out of my
left ear but remain in my right ear.
UGREEN
HiTune Lightning Headphones MFi Certified In Ear Headphones with
Lightning Plug Wired Earbuds Mic In-Line Control for iPhone Compatible
with iPhone
[4:43] - Wedze
Hand warmers, link from Decathlon.
First main compartment
[5:40] - Picture 02 shows the leather pouch pocket protector that I
used to carry coins. I no longer have a use for it as I no longer carry
change. Despite this for some reason I still continue to carry it back
and forward to work.
Picture 2

[6:25] - Pictures 03 and 04 show the Essentials fold back clips 19mm
I use on a daily basis to organise bundles of paperwork.
Picture 3

Picture 4

Wikipedia link
to article about Bulldog clips which are not exactly the same item but
serve the same purpose.
[7:50] - Picture 05 shows the rubber (Eraser) I purchased from the
New Lanark Village Store. The proceeds go to the RNLI (Royal National
Lifeboat Institution).
Picture 5

Wikipedia article
about the New Lanark Village
Link
to New Lanark Village Store
Wikipedia
article about the RNLI (Royal National Lifeboat Institution)
[8:50] - I mention a plastic bag clip – 08:50. Link
to similar plastic bag clip on Amazon
[8:55] - I mention a rubber band. Link to rubber band
article on Wikipedia
[9:10] - I mention a silica gel pouch I found in my work bag. Refer
to picture 06.
Link to Silica Gel
article on Wikipedia.
Picture 6

[9:40] - I mention a squishy ear defender. Refer to picture 07 Link to Wikipedia article
about ear plugs
Picture 7

[10:20] - I mention that I carry Ain Stein 0.7 HB Pencil lead in my
bag. Link
to Ain Stein 0.7mm HB Pentel pencil leads on Amazon.
[10:50] – I mention that I carry a four colour Bic pen. Amazon
link to Bic four coloured pen
[11:05] – I mention that I carry a Pentel P207 propelling pencil and
that this is my favourite writing implement. Amazon
link to Pentel P207 propelling pencil, they also offer other models with
different thicknesses of lead.
Wikipedia article
about the Pentel company
[13:20] – I mention that I carry black and white Eding 780 paint
marker pens. Amazon
link to Eding 780 paint marker pens.
[13:50] – I mention that I carry a Southord C801 Lock picking set
which I was given as a birthday present one year. Amazon
link to Southord C801 Lock picking set
Wikipedia
article about lock picking
[15:35] - I mention that it is generally very easy to pick a
combination lock. Link to YouTube video
explaining how to pick a combination lock
[16:45] I mention I had some documentation bout the Python function
urllib.request. I was using this function to scrape text from the HPR
site. I cover
how I used it in my previous HPR episode HPR 2340. Link to
Python documentation about urllib.request
[17:10] I mention that I have some red coloured spot stickers that I
have many uses for one of which is to make it easy to see at a glance if
the switch that operates an outside light is turned on as without this
it is not possible without stepping outside to check. Refer to picture
08.
Picture 8

Second main compartment
[18:20] I have a Morgan foldable brolly which I occasionally use when
caught in the rain. Refer to picture 09
Picture 9

[18:30] I have a pair of foldable military ear defenders. I picked
them up while I was at an air show I think at Ingliston many years ago.
Refer to pictures 10 and 11
Picture 10

Picture 11

Third compartment
containing a pile of keech
[19:30] I mention the Scottish word Keech. Definition of the
Scottish word Keech.
[20:25] I found an old Unite Magazine from 2019 in my bag. A Wikipedia article
about the Unite Union
[20:30] I mention I found on old article from 2006 about the
possibility of a bird flu epidemic and how to protect yourself should it
happen.
Wikipedia
article about Avian influenza H5N1 commonly known as bird flu
Wikipedia
article about the magazine New Scientist
[22:15] I mention that found a letter from my company with a
designated worker heading. If required this letter was to allow me to
drive to work at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. I do remember
having to do this at least once and that the roads were deserted like
some post apocalyptic scene from a movie. Despite this I never needed to
show the letter to anyone.
[22:55] I talk about a sketch I made a number of years ago for a
timber post. I was told this was needed in order to place a charging
point midway up my driveway. This was needed for an electric car I was
thinking of buying. I ended up abandoning the idea as it all got too
complicated. I believe things have since improved and I now wish I’d
bought the car is it actually went up in value!
[24:00] I briefly mention a piece of paper entitled disk tidy that
contained various Linux commands. I think this was a number of Ideas I
wanted to try out to tease out which directories were taking up the most
space on a hard drive I had. These days I either use the du command or
sometimes ncurses command ncdu.
[24:30] I talk about a pile of old documents I came across that may
have copyright issues so I won’t include them in the show notes. However
I’ll include the following related links
[24:40] The first document I found was from the from many years ago
with a foot note saying it was from the UN Population Division UNDE SA
Oxfam World Centre WWF giving various stats about global population,
resource usage and carbon emissions Link to UN Population
Division
Link
to UN DESA (Department of Economic and Social Affairs)
Wikipedia
article about
[26:00] I came across an old illustration from the BBC I think from
around 2012 which had two graphs from the UK showing the vast number of
staff working in the DWP (Department of Work and Pensions) to recover a
potential small amount of fraud in the UK benefits system and comparing
this to the tiny number of staff they had working in the UK's HMRC (HM
Revenue and Customs) that could have recovered a potentially vast amount
of tax evasion fraud. Wikipedia article about the BBC
- British Broadcasting corporation
Wikipedia
article about the DWP - Department for Work and Pensions
Wikipedia
article about the HMRC - HM Revenue and Customs
[27:45] I briefly mention a paper I found that mentioned peak oil. I
feel this is now less of a problem as there is more than enough left in
the ground to fry humanity. Link to Wikipedia article
about peak oil.
[27:45] I mention a Breadboard layout I found which I created to use
with a Digital IO add on board on one of my raspberry pi’s. Refer to my
previous HPR show 2901 Wikipedia article about
Breadboards
Last compartment of bag –
main area
[28:50] I mention that I carry a bottle of water to work. The bottle
is a stainless steel water bottle that is double walled vacuum
insulated. It can hold ‎500 Millilitres of liquid. It claims to be able
to keep liquids cool for 24 Hours. I've been very impressed with it as
it seems to be able to keep the water cool for the whole day I am at
work. Amazon
link to water bottle
[29:00] I mention that I carry a roll of masking tape. This comes in
handy for all sorts of situations. Often to create ad-hoc labels for things. Wikipedia
article about masking tape
[29:05] I mention that the skin on my hands can get very dry
especially when I’m at the office due to it having low humidity. I use
Nutrogena hand cream to combat this. Amazon
link to Nutrogena hand cream
[29:42] I mention that I carry a stapler which comes in handy from
time to time. Refer to picture 12. Wikipedia article about
staplers
Picture 12

[29:50] I mention that I carry magnifying glass as my eyesight is not
as good as it used to be. Wikipedia article
about magnifying glasses
[29:55] I mention that I also carry a pencil case to work. Wikipedia article about
the pencil case
[30:09] I found a Caramel Wacko chocolate bar biscuit in the bag I
take to work (Refer to picture 13). These are available from from Aldi.
Aldi is discount food store in the UK. Wikipedia article about
Aldi
Picture 13

