## hpr3841 :: The Oh No! News.

 The Oh No! news.
Oh No! News is Good
News.


Threat analysis; your attack surface.
Article: US
Marshals Service Computer System Hit by Ransomware Attack.

Author: Michael Kan. (2023,
Feb 28).
The agency uncovered the intrusion on Feb. 17 2023, when it
discovered “a ransomware and data exfiltration event affecting a
standalone USMS system.” That means the hackers stole information from
the computer while planting malicious code capable of encrypting the
data inside.
“The affected system contains law enforcement sensitive information,
including returns from legal process, administrative information, and
personally identifiable information pertaining to subjects of USMS
investigations, third parties, and certain USMS employees,” the agency
says.

Article: US
Shuts Down 'Netwire' Malware That Posed as Legit Remote Admin Tool.

Author: Michael Kan. (2023,
Mar 10).
Worldwiredlabs.com has been around since at least 2012(Opens in a
new window), offering a software product called “Netwire,” which is
supposedly designed to help IT support staff manage computers remotely.
Before the site was seized, it was offering Netwire for $10 per month or
$60 per year. However, US investigators say the site was a front to sell
the software as a hacking tool to cybercriminals.

Supporting Article: Federal
Authorities Seize Internet Domain Selling Malware Used to Illegally
Control and Steal Data from Victims’ Computers.

Author: U.S. Attorney's Office, Central District of
California. (2023, Mar 9).
A seizure warrant approved by a United States Magistrate Judge on
March 3 and executed on Tuesday led to the seizure of
www.worldwiredlabs.com, which offered the NetWire remote access trojan
(RAT), a sophisticated program capable of targeting and infecting every
major computer operating system. “A RAT is a type of malware that allows
for covert surveillance, allowing a ‘backdoor’ for administrative
control and unfettered and unauthorized remote access to a victim’s
computer, without the victim’s knowledge or permission,” according to
court documents filed in Los Angeles.

Supporting Article: FBI
takes down cybercrime forum that touted data connected to breach
affecting US lawmakers.

Author: Sean Lyngaas. (2023, Mar 24).
The FBI has arrested the alleged founder of a popular cybercriminal
forum that touted data stolen in a hack affecting members of Congress
and thousands of other people and taken the website down, the Justice
Department said Friday.

Article: Data
Breach at DC Health Insurance Exchange Ensnares US Lawmakers.

Author: Michael Kan. (2023,
Mar 9).
A data breach at a health insurance exchange in Washington, D.C. has
led a hacker to steal the personal information of US lawmakers and their
staff.

Article: Independent
Living Systems Provides Notice of Data Event.

Author: Independent Living Systems, LLC. (2023, Mar
14).
The types of impacted information varies by individual and could
have included: name, address, date of birth, driver's license, state
identification, Social Security number, financial account information,
medical record number, Medicare or Medicaid identification, CIN#, mental
or physical treatment/condition information, food delivery information,
diagnosis code or diagnosis information, admission/discharge date,
prescription information, billing/claims information, patient name, and
health insurance information.

Supporting Article: Data
Breach Notifications.

Author: Maine Attorney General. (2023, Mar
14).
Total number of persons affected (including residents):
4,226,508
Total number of Maine residents affected: 238
If the number of Maine residents exceeds 1,000, have the consumer
reporting agencies been notified:
Date(s) Breach Occurred: 06/03/2022
Date Breach Discovered: 01/17/2023
Description of the Breach:
External system breach (hacking)
Information Acquired - Name or other personal identifier in
combination with: Social Security Number

Article: Alleged
BreachForums owner Pompompurin arrested on cybercrime charges.

Author: Sergiu
Gatlan. (2023, Mar 17).
U.S. law enforcement arrested on Wednesday a New York man believed
to be Pompompurin, the owner of the BreachForums hacking forum.

Supporting Article: FBI
takes down cybercrime forum that touted data connected to breach
affecting US lawmakers.

Author: Sean Lyngaas. (2023, Mar 24).
The FBI has arrested the alleged founder of a popular cybercriminal
forum that touted data stolen in a hack affecting members of Congress
and thousands of other people and taken the website down, the Justice
Department said Friday.




User space.
Article: After
PayPal Revokes Controversial Misinformation Policy, Major Concerns
Remain Over $2,500 Fine..

Author: Emily Mason (2022, Oct 22).
After facing backlash earlier this month, PayPal PYPL -1.5%
rescinded a line in its policy stating that spreading misinformation on
the platform would be subject to a $2,500 fine. Today, the remaining
language leaves users and elected officials demanding more clarity over
how the platform defines fine-worthy speech.

Bumble Bee's first experience of the HPR website.



Additional Information.

What is a
Data Breach? A data breach is a security violation, in which
sensitive, protected or confidential data is copied, transmitted,
viewed, stolen, altered or used by an individual unauthorized to do
so.
What is
Malware? Malware (a portmanteau for
malicious software) is any software intentionally designed to cause
disruption to a computer, server, client, or computer network, leak
private information, gain unauthorized access to information or systems,
deprive access to information, or which unknowingly interferes with the
user's computer security and privacy.
What is
a Payload? In the context of a computer virus or worm, the payload
is the portion of the malware which performs malicious action; deleting
data, sending spam or encrypting data. In addition to the payload, such
malware also typically has overhead code aimed at simply spreading
itself, or avoiding detection.
What is
Phishing? Phishing is a form of social
engineering where attackers deceive people into revealing sensitive
information or installing malware such as ransomware. Phishing
attacks have become increasingly sophisticated and often transparently
mirror the site being targeted, allowing the attacker to observe
everything while the victim is navigating the site, and transverse any
additional security boundaries with the victim.
What is
Information Security (InfoSec)? Information security, sometimes
shortened to InfoSec, is the practice of protecting information by
mitigating information risks.
It is part of information
risk management.
What is a
Vulnerability (computing)? Vulnerabilities are flaws in a computer
system that weaken the overall security of the device/system.
Vulnerabilities can be weaknesses in either the hardware itself, or the
software that runs on the hardware.
What is an
"Attack Surface"? The attack surface of a software environment is
the sum of the different points (for "attack vectors") where an
unauthorized user (the "attacker") can try to enter data to or extract
data from an environment. Keeping the attack surface as small as
possible is a basic security measure.
What is an
"Attack Vector"? In computer security, an attack vector is a
specific path, method, or scenario that can be exploited to break into
an IT system, thus compromising its security. The term was derived from
the corresponding notion of vector in biology. An attack vector may be
exploited manually, automatically, or through a combination of manual
and automatic activity.


