## hpr3654 :: Use the data in the Ogg feed to create a website.

 Make a website using the HPR RSS Feed
Welcome to part II of my experiment in how much can be done with the data ion the HPR feed
In my previous episode https://hackerpublicradio.org/eps.php?id=3637 I discussed taking the data from the HPR feed and stuffing the useful bits into a sqlite database.
Today, Ill discuss some of my adventures generating a static site using the feed data
Lessons learned

Maybe skip DB step
I tend to over use Markdown - sometimes HTML is Better
So much content on HPR

Tech
My original intent was to create markdown files that could be feed into an existing static site generator, something like Hugo or Jekyll.
I started with markdown but had to add too much html.
I'm am a bit fan of using Markdown, but it did not fit this particular use case

Peewee - ORM - https://docs.peewee-orm.com
Jinja - Templates - https://jinja.palletsprojects.com

Feed as source of data
I added some HTML for header footer

Header

bootstrap CSS columns
hpr logo

footer

Links
Copyright


Pages

Main page listing the most recent shows
A page listing all shows
Individual pages for each show
A page listing all the hosts
individual page for each host

One thing I would like to see on the HPR page is a count of how many shows there are for each host. I have enough data, so I added show counts.
Missing data

host profiles - web page, avatars
tags
series
Summary - The short 100 character summary of what your show is about
License
Other pages on the HPR site.

What you need to know
How to help out
Requested topics
...


How does it work

Peewee to read from sqlite file
Python aggregates the appropriate data
Jinja Templates for

index - passed data from most recent shows
All shows
host page
corespondents - all host


TODO

Incorporate Comment feed
Generate static copy of RSS feed.
Copy content from HPR pages that are not in the RSS feed.
Generate Tags from Keywords in the show notes.
Only use the Full Feed on the first run.

Links

Project - https://gitlab.com/norrist/hprfeed2db - Suggestions/Pull Requests are welcome
Example site - https://hpr.norrist.xyz/

