## hpr4015 :: Value of life, part 0.

 Value of life, part 0.
Wear
your secret hat. Sgoti talks about putting a dollar value on a human
life.

Source: Value of life

The value of life is an economic value used to quantify the benefit
of avoiding a fatality. It is also referred to as the cost of life,
value of preventing a fatality (VPF), implied cost of averting a
fatality (ICAF), and value of a statistical life (VSL).

Supporting Source: Cost-benefit
analysis

Cost-benefit analysis (CBA), sometimes also called benefit-cost
analysis, is a systematic approach to estimating the strengths and
weaknesses of alternatives. It is used to determine options which
provide the best approach to achieving benefits while preserving savings
in, for example, transactions, activities, and functional business
requirements.

Source: Social Credit
System

The Social Credit System is a national credit rating and blacklist
being developed by the government of China. The social credit initiative
calls for the establishment of a record system so that businesses,
individuals and government institutions can be tracked and evaluated for
trustworthiness. There are multiple forms of the social credit system
being experimented with, while the national regulatory method is based
on whitelisting (termed redlisting in China) and blacklisting.

Source: What
is Body Part Insurance?

Insuring body parts isn't anything new in the world of celebrities,
but it is a rare type of insurance that now counts athletes among its
numbers. The entire point of insuring a body part is to supplement a
loss of income should that body part become injured, damaged, scarred,
handicapped or lost, preventing the individual from continuing to use it
to generate income.

Source: Pre-existing
condition

The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center defines a pre-existing
condition as a "medical condition that occurred before a program of
health benefits went into effect". J. James Rohack, president of the
American Medical Association, has stated on a Fox News Sunday interview
that exclusions, based upon these conditions, function as a form of
"rationing" of health care.

Supporting Source: The
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

